..
  Copyright (C) European XFEL GmbH Schenefeld. All rights reserved.

****************************
  What's New in Karabo 1.4
****************************

This chapter explains the new features in Karabo 1.4.


New Features
============

Device Ids with Slashes
-----------------------

Since release 1.4.0, device ids are allowed to contain slashes ('/') to support the 
European XFEL naming convention.

To allow that, the file names used for data logging had to be changed in a non-backward
compatible way. If an existing installation is upgraded from 1.3.X to 1.4.0 or beyond,
manual intervention is needed to keep the logged data history accessible. For that purpose
a script is provided in $KARABO/bin: ``convertKaraboHistoryFrom13X.sh``.
It has to be run once on the host of the data logger server(s). Consult the ``--help``
option of the script for further details.

=========
Bug Fixes
=========

1.4.2
-----
* Several fixes to improve the stability of Karabo, especially cases where the
  broker topic continuously filled with unacknowledged messages until the topic
  was full and Karabo became not responsive.
* Fixes in reading back device history. It is recommended to rebuild the index
  files in the ``karaboHistory`` directory of the data logger server(s) using
  the ``idxbuild`` executable (in ``$KARABO/bin``). Avoid doing that while the
  system is running.


Regressions
===========

1.4.2
-----
One of the fixes to stabilise Karabo disables the registration of a new callback
inside a callback of the ``JmsBrokerConnection`` - a feature that is not used
in Karabo.
