..
  Copyright (C) European XFEL GmbH Schenefeld. All rights reserved.

****************************
What's New in Karabo 2.10.6
****************************

This release backports important improvements for the middlelayer framework in case
Python 3.6 still has to be used.

- MDL: Cherry pick server validation for configuration !5855
- MDL: Pipelines always reconnect independent from instanceNew !5857
- MDL: Cherry pick array fixes for 2.10 !5867
- MDL: Forward slotInstanceUpdated to device children (Cherry pick hotfix) !5871


****************************
What's New in Karabo 2.10.5
****************************

This release backports two improvements in the C++ framework.

- Influx logger warning in rare situations !5304
- C++: Avoid data drop when OutputChannel writes big data to busy receiver !5496


****************************
What's New in Karabo 2.10.4
****************************

This release improves the karabo gui cinema. It features a cinema weblink
creator for the project panel and various other enhancements.

In order to use web links for the cinema, thew new url scheme handler
can be registered using ``karabo-register-protocol`` after activating the gui
environment.

The InfluxLogReader device is now more robust on historical property fetching.
The ``traindId`` of data retrieved via getProperty history is now forced to ``0``
despite its value on the database might be different. Do not use this feature to
debug trainId configurations. The value of the ``trainId`` can be fetched via
web interfaces like Grafana or via the Influx command line.

Furthermore, the input channel (re) connection in C++ is improved.

Detailed Merge-Log
==================

- GUI: add protocol registration utility !5272
- GUI: Enable cinema to run with multiple scenes !5276
- GUI: Prevent sigterm in cinema and theatre !5273
- GUI: adapt weblink widget to karabo url scheme !5281
- GUI: Table fix !5271
- GUI: remove protocol registration at application start !5285
- GUI: Create-cinema-web !5283
- GUI: Fix cinema typo in wizard !5296

- DataLogger: Fix for non-responsive log reader issue !5306
- C++: More robust input channel (re-)connection !5311


****************************
What's New in Karabo 2.10.3
****************************

This patch comes with a few fixes, mainly for the GUI.

- The transparent background is removed (regression) in the plot widgets for a performance increase
  of a factor of two (2).
- Multiple plots can immediately shown for macros as well and it is possible
  to deactivate the High DPI setting from the menu bar.

Detailed Merge-Log
==================

- C++ JMS reading: respect handler setting order !5142
- C++: Get rid of Hash copy when writing to JMS broker !5196

- GUI: Fix multiple plots in vector graph !5173
- GUI: fix installation path for protocol handler !5174
- GUI: Remove transparency of image layout !5176
- GUI: Remove transparent graphics view !5175
- GUI: Process events on main window render !5178
- GUI: Fix datetime appearance on trendline on windows !5185
- GUI: Cherry picking DPI fixes and Grafana !5198
- GUI: make protocol registration robust !5201


****************************
What's New in Karabo 2.10.2
****************************

This patch comes with important fixes for the karabo gui client:

- This patch release significantly improves plot layouts in the GUI
- Exporting multiple images enhanced
- Add of resize scene dialog to scene toolbar
- Workaround for the Qt bug of logical dpi
- Fix table element configuration of init only elements
- Other improvements ...

**And removes the acknowledgement on acknowledgement of broker messages, which
will give a significant messaging boost**

Detailed Merge-Log
==================

**ALL APIs: Do not wait for broker to acknowledge acknowledgements !5138**

- GUI: Significantly decrease margins in trendline layout !5033
- GUI: Take the int of the localDotsPerInch !5041
- GUI: setContentsMagins to 0 for plot widgets !5077
- GUI: Protect VectorXY from device intstantiations !5080
- GUI: Add an offset on pasted scene objects
- GUI: Enhance Image Layout - Remove unnecessary margins !5095
- GUI: Axis item double click !5096
- GUI: One more margin for the image layout (Cherry pick for hotfix) !5097
- GUI: Remove margins from trendline layout (Cherry pick for hotfix) !5098
- GUI: Use bytescale in images (cherry pick for hotfix) !5089
- GUI: Use traits Event on export current tool (cherry pick for hotfix) !5123
- GUI: Resize scene dialog !5131
- GUI: Fix table element configuration on init only tables !5136
- GUI: Add karabo:// URL protocol !5137
- GUI: Fix scatter plot item initial parameter and cleanup (cherry pick for hotfix) !5139
- GUI: Cleanup more the axis item and remove patches (cherry pick hotfix) !5144


****************************
What's New in Karabo 2.10.1
****************************

This patch release fixes some issues in the GUI and completes some
features in the C++/bound framework:

- GUI: Major enhancement of trendline time axis

- C++/Bound: InputChannel connection status tracking:
  The `DeviceClient` method to register for pipeline data from an
  OutputChannel (registerChannelMonitor) now offers a hook to track
  the connection status that can be `DISCONNECTED`,`CONNECTING`,
  `CONNECTED` and maybe `DISCONNECTING`.

- C++/Bound: End-of-stream handling in many-to-one scenario:
  If an InputChannel receives data from several output channels,
  a registered end-of-stream handler is now reliably called when all
  output channels have sent their end-of-stream.
  Note: This completes the 2.10.0 fix of a long standing bug that made
  the many-to-one pipeline scenario pretty unreliable.
  Now it can be safely used.


Detailed Merge-Log
==================

- C++: Fix EOS handling and its test for many-to-one pipeline !4991
- C++:  InputChannel connection tracker !4995
- C++: Expose input channel status tracking to DeviceClient interface !4996
- C++: Clean input channel !4976
- C++: Alarm signal with priority to ensure order !5006
- Bound: Expose InputChannel ConnectionStatus to DeviceClient interface !4997

- GUI: Use native axis item pyqtgraph !4985
- GUI: Scale font size with the operating system !4977
- GUI: Add WaitForEvents flag for processEvents !5008


****************************
What's New in Karabo 2.10.0
****************************

The **most relevant improvements**, fixes and changes are:

- C++/bound: The legacy point-to-point shortcut for broker type communication
  has been removed, including the configuration parameters
  GuiServerDevice.p2pDevices and DataLoggerManager.useP2p and DataLogger.useP2p
  that were used to switch the feature (partially) on.

- MDL: Every `requiredAccessLevel` which will be at least `AccessLevel.USER` for **reconfigurable** parameters
  if not explicitly specified!

- MDL: The eventloop can be configured and set to ``uvloop`` via an environemnt variable. Please set ``KARABO_UVLOOP``
  before starting the device server to use ``uvloop`` instead of native ``asyncio``.

  - For now, MDL servers started with ``uvloop`` cannot start devices from ``bound`` python.

- MDL: Outputchannel can write end of stream token with coroutine `writeEndOfStream`.

- MDL: A new karabo descriptor is introduced, the ``RegexString``. A string descriptor which validatas against regex pattern.

- Core Devices: The ``DaemonManager`` device has been moved to the Framework.

- Core Devices: A new Framework device has been created, the ``ConfigurationManager``.

- Pipelines: The available options of the onSlowness parameter that defines how an output channel should react
  if a connected input channel is not yet ready to receive more data, have changed: The non-functional throw has been
  removed and a new option queueDrop has been introduced. The default has changed from wait to **drop**.
  The ``compression`` key has been removed.

- All API: The `visibility` of devices cannot be configured on runtime anymore.

- All API: The core devices get a common place with deviceId definitions. In the future, these deviceIds must be used:
  KARABO_ALARM_SERVICE = "Karabo_AlarmService"
  KARABO_CONFIG_MANAGER = "KaraboConfigurationManager"
  KARABO_DAEMON_MANAGER = "KaraboDaemonManager"
  KARABO_PROJECT_MANAGER = "KaraboProjectManager"

- GUI: The Karabo GUI is shipped now with open license fonts: Source Sans Pro, Source Serif Pro, Source Code Pro. **All other fonts won't be offered anymore.**

- GUI: The grid layout has been deprecated. It can be still read and written, but won't be offered anymore on grouping.

- GUI: The DoubleWheelEdit controller has been deprecated.

- GUI: The Slider widget has been deprecated.


Detailed Merge-Log
==================

- All API: Add test for alarm behaviour plus fixes to succeed !4396
- All API: test signalAlarmUpdateI integrated tests for the signal emitted !4432
- All APIs: Class version property from version control !4587
- All API: Pipeline default onSlowness to drop !4726


Influx Database
+++++++++++++++

- InfluxDB: Add a last line of defense against malformed influx queries. !4439
- InfluxDB: Integration test for data logging when schema evolution happens. !4455
- InfluxDB: Nan treatment for influx logger !4460
- InfluxDB: no base64 encoding for vector_uint8 !4475
- Influx migration: save last run info !4431
- InfluxDB: Support VECTOR_BOOL in Influx Logging !4472
- InfluxDB: Handle BYTE_ARRAY for the Influx case in the same way it is handled for file based logging. !4476
- InfluxDB: Influx Line Protocol does not accept NaNs !4437
- InfluxDB: Display success when influx migration succeeds!4493
- InfluxDB migration: do not try to parse LOGOUT lines !4498
- InfluxDB: adapt migration to new format !4458
- InfluxDB: Implement Vector of Chars !4456
- InfluxDB: Fix influx reader when schema injection happens and empty strings and vectors are involved. !4450
- InfluxDB: Migration Script. VECTOR_UINT8 unpack and bugfix !4473
- InfluxDB: Migration base64 encodes single chars !4479
- InfluxDB: encode CHAR in base64 !4477
- InfluxDB: Log the whole answer in case of failing request !4526
- InfluxDB: align schema digest field name in MDL logger !4531
- InfluxDB: fix schema_digest event name !4530
- InfluxDB: Fix more cycling in InfluxLogReader !4559
- InfluxDB: Fix cycling in InfluxLogReader for FLOAT and DOUBLE !4551
- InfluxDB: quote on tag for schema_digest entry + add integration test !4546
- InfluxDB: Cast UINT64 to INT64 not STRING !4555
- InfluxDB: UINT64s are not saved as strings anymore !4563
- InfluxDB: Introduce VECTOR_STRING_BASE64 encoding for vector of string !4459
- InfluxDB: Migrator does not add quotes to field keys !4412
- InfluxDB: better failure detectionThe setup to connect to InfluxDB and check/create databases was not properly checking HTTP return codes. !4414
- InfluxDB: Better error messages when Influx Server is not available . !4442
- InfluxDB: Allow for a date range on migration !4597
- InfluxDB: Refactors InfluxDbClient to host just one TcpChannel and fix some issues with Telegraf integration tests. !4603
- InfluxDB: Add limit to 'maxNumData' parameter for slot 'getPropertyHistory' for Influx. !4616
- InfluxDB: handle partial results !4617
- InfluxDB: allow configurable max history size request !4628
- InfluxDB: Add all logger and readers as visible classes of default logger server !4632
- InfluxDB: Fix influx logger crash !4506
- InfluxDB: Telegraf integrated tests as long running tests. !4792


Bound/cpp core
++++++++++++++

- Bound: Validate config before launching device process !4725
- Bound: Allow to specify DaqPolicy of STATE_ELEMENTAlso fix typo hiding duplicated test function. !4502
- Bound: Make global alarms 'sticky' !4451
- Bound: Make changed log level visible !4550
- Bound: Fix schema evolution problem with broker connection in bound python !4881
- C++: Notify old gui clients about scene problems !4925
- C++: Add method 'TcpChannel::consumeBytesAfterReadUntil' as a complement for 'TcpChannel::readAsyncStringUntil' !4515
- C++: Log readers reply time string with timezone in slotGetConfigurationFromPast !4536
- C++: Provide a readOnly version for the GUI Server !4448
- C++: Silence gui server log file !4415
- C++: Clean AlarmCondition* Make use of 'default' and 'delete' for constructors. !4417
- C++: string contain pipes are read correctly in for (1|2|3) scenario. !4592
- C++: Ensure that output channel keys do not contain device/channel id delimiters !4666
- C++: Refactor endOfStream handlingMark chunks in `Memory` to be *endOfStream* !4672
- C++: Clean Memory classJust remove stuff not used. !4678
- C++: Add support for ConfigurationManager operations to DeviceClient. !4694
- C++: Fix many-to-one pipelines receiving from remote !4705
- C++: Make gcc version < 5 fail !4708
- C++: remove compression option !4712
- C++: Add missing mutex locks and go for read-only locks !4697
- C++: Initial BrokerMessageLogger support for OpenMQ and MQTT. !4717
- C++: JMS reading with race condition free setting of handlers !4735
- C++: Use single JmsProducer in OpenMQBrokerThe JmsProducer itself can deal with many topics. !4736
- C++: Enable safe output channel init !4741
- C++: Fix non-effective mutex locks and properly erase from set while iterate !4763
- C++: Protect server against bad input from time server !4772
- C++: server process stops again if invalid serverId detected !4764
- C++/bound: Regular retries to connect InputChannel !4848
- C++ tests: Try to fix JmsConnection_Test !4851
- C++: Add maxQueueLength to InputChannel and enforce it on the OutputChannel side. !4845
- C++: Underscore parameters (deviceId, serverId) become assignment Internal !4889
- C++: Loggers now retry connection to device after failed attempts !4918
- C++: No slotSaveConfigurationFromName when GUI Server is in read-only mode. !4896
- C++/Bound: make hostName Assignment.INTERNAL !4898
- C++: Jms test - avoid topic clash and increase timeout and message travel time !4806
- C++: More robust pipeline tests* !4808
- C++: Reliable InputChannel::disconnect !4832
- C++: queueDrop option for shared input channels !4636
- C++: Use weak (not bare) pointer in static map for shortcuts !4638
- C++: Allow to change loggermap file !4607
- C++: Avoid code duplication in OutputChannel !4640
- C++: Channel callbacks need  weak pointers !4642
- C++: OVERWRITE_ELEMENT.setNewTags is now aligned !4429
- C++: Remove "throw" behaviour for pipelines senders !4644
- C++: Potential fix for SignalSlotable destruction freeze. !4663
- C++: Reliable pipeline queuing !4605
- C++: GuiServerDevice can ignore timeouts on configuration !4649
- C++: Enable DAQPolicy setting for the state element !4446
- C++: Protect log manager. A data logger started 'by hand' with a short id lead to an exception and stopped
- the logger manager functioning. !4501
- C++: Make global alarms 'sticky' !4507
- C++/Bound: Always notify output channels for possible read after end-of-stream !4474
- C++: Fix alarm service integration test !4507 !4516
- C++: Fix default fromString for vectors,Including some performance optimisations. !4484
- C++/Bound: Deprecate visibility setting on runtime !4730
- C++/Bound/MDL: Cross API test for endOfStream !4683
- C++/Bound: Introduce broker API to allow support of different brokers !4608
- C++/Bound: refactor topic from env. var. !4711
- C++/Bound: Choice of node for broker connection configuration. !4762
- C++/Bound: Proper "lang" and version print for (interactive bound) device client !4595
- C++/Bound: UNKNOWN as default data type for image and ndarray elements !4588
- C++/Bound: Remove p2p shortcut messaging !4664


Dependencies and deployment
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- CI: run integration tests on hotfix branch !4487
- CI: windows CI is less verbose, unit tests skip build !4599
- CI: do not run prerelease tasks on release !4604
- CI: optimize tests execution !4606
- CI: forgot to remove the int. tests !4613
- CI: add junit artifacts !4723
- CI: Restore default CI testing configuration. !4855
- CI: reduce number of docker pulls !4890
- BUILD: Use conda-pack for packing a relocatable environment !4591
- BUILD: Preserve egg dir when building the package !4618
- BUILD: Compile framework with C++14 compiler !4535
- BUILD: revive cmake build !4420
- DEPS: package libgfortran4 !4602
- DEPS: upgrade setuptools_scm !4660
- DEPS: Update PyQtGraph to 0.11 !4732
- DEPS: Enable Ubuntu20 !4707
- DEPS: upgrade openmq C Client to 5.1.4 !4418
- DEPS: Add CentOS8 Build !4733
- DEPS: Fix for building issue on Ubuntu 16 - Boost built with c++14 std. !4834
- TOOLS: splitting away jkarabo !4823


Tests
+++++


- Test: Even more robust C++ pipeline integration test !4902
- Integration test: Very long timeouts for data loggers* longer timeout for "flush" calls !4537
- Integration tests: Reliable test_alarm_all_api !4438
- TOOLS: automated device version for templates !4657
- Test: Fix config manager integration test !4854
- Test: More robust integration tests about alarms !4884
- Test: Make logging directory for logger integration tests unique !4565
- Test: Tests for the DeviceClient interface to the ConfigurationManager operations. !4704
- Test: Add junit artifact to python tests !4757
- Test: Tune constants for DataLogging_Test. !4639
- Test: extend cross api pipe test to cover MDL and onSlowness=="queueDrop"Prerequisite: harmonise the `PropertyTestMDL` device with other APIs concerning pipelines.
- Test: Furthermore some fixes and tuning for the test to get it robust and not lasting too long. !4614
- Test: Enable testNans() for file logger test !4489
- Test: Add schedules for coverage and long tests !4427
- Test: Partially harmonise PropertyTest devices !4395


Core Devices
++++++++++++

- Daemon Service: Add default host !4819
- Gui Server: Provide serverInformation in single message !4867
- Gui-Server: Provide information on failure protocol !4720
- Gui-Server: Forward replies of the configurationManager !4673
- Gui-Server: Request Generic optionally sends back an empty Hash and documentation !4718
- Gui Server: Increase min client version to 2.9.0 !4922
- Gui Server: Enable device provided scenes in read only mode !4483
- Core Devices: Add component manager that can save / list configuration snapshots !4768
- Core Devices: PropertyTest MDL gets a scene !4838
- Core Devices: Enhance configuration manager with checks for config names and schema return only on demand !4841
- Core Devices: Daemon Manager default port !4850
- Core Devices: Component Manager can reconfigure devices !4835
- Core Devices: Configuration manager returns HashList !4713
- Core Devices: Provide a Configuration Manager device (MDL) !4685
- Core Devices: Move DaemonManager to Core Devices !4698
- Core Devices: Update ConfigurationManager !4744
- Core Devices: Input services for daemon handling !4703
- Core Devices: Webserver doesn't handles device servers with a minus sign !4600
- Core Devices: Create service and environment dirs only when needed !4590
- Core Devices: REMOVE CentralLogging !3870
- Alarm service: Fix alarm id duplication bug !4421
- Logger test: Test vector cases for data logger history !4482
- WEB: aggregator displays only enabled services !4814
- DataLogger: DataLogger goes to ON after hooking into logged devices, unless in ERROR. !4748
- DataLogger: Fix regression of file logger for old VECTOR_STRING format !4654
- Core Devices: Daemon manager scene font alignment !4899
- Core Devices: Configuration Manager instanceNew timeout !4921
- Core Devices: Config limit to 30 !4892
- Core devices: Gui timeout and logs !4927
- Core Devices: ConfigManager can handle runtime attributes !4874
- ConfigDB Manager in service.in !4870
- Configuration Manager: Protect device configuration name with regex !4863
- Config DB: List devices with configurations !4907
- Config DB: Limit of configurations !4862
- Config DB: Find configuration sets !4765


Middlelayer Core
++++++++++++++++

- Common: Provide unique and constant deviceId names for our singletons !4731
- Common: Use const services in python karabo !4830
- ikarabo: add instantiateFromName !4843
- MDL: Set the default access level of Slots to USER !4469
- MDL: Visibility becomes an init only feature !4648
- MDL: Add queueDrop to noInputShared, deprecate throw option !4650
- MDL: QueueDrop functionality !4646
- MDL: Default numpy for NDArray change !4637
- MDL: Provide a RingQueue !4645
- MDL: Stop and close the fake eventloop started in a different thread !4689
- MDL: Use default event loop policy for child processes !4716
- MDL: Assure instanceGone in UVLOOP !4728
- MDL: Add configuration from name function to CLI !4701
- MDL: optimize parallel execution on slotSave !4737
- MDL: Autocomplete configuration function in ikarabo !4738
- MDL: Provide Nodes with default access level of OBSERVER !4815
- MDL: Fix input handler capture of exception in pipelining !4633
- MDL: Handle NDARRAY of UNKNOWN type !4610
- MDL: code quality follow up !4615
- MDL: DictToHash treats vector hash correctly and is used in project manager !4844
- MDL: Provide utility function to build karabo value !4869
- MDL: remove references to async !4791
- MDL: Use attribute and not displaytype for regex in regexstring !4796
- MDL: Fix has_shared behavior for pipelining !4665
- MDL: Remove schema cross test permanently !4802
- MDL: Config Manager can init Devices !4803
- MDL: Use uvloop for asyncio !4026
- MDL: Set the access level to USER (minimum) for reconfigurable parameters !4634
- MDL: Add Regex string !4709
- MDL: Make global alarm 'sticky'As in !4451 and !4507 for bound Python and C++, respectively.!4514
- MDL: Fix load from file exception raise !4528
- MDL: Visibility of macro devices !4510
- MDL: Split the pipeline tests from Remote test !4544
- MDL: Test the manual connection of input channel !4545
- MDL: Provide endOfStream for output channels !4242
- MDL: Fix setting log level for device servers !4682
- MDL: Provide dictToHash function !4687
- MDL: Harmonise log levels with C++/bound, i.e. add FATAL !4688
- MDL: Optionally activate UVLOOP !4680
- MDL: Provide Hash fully equal and deepcopy !4880
- MDL: Code quality check in native !4879
- MDL: Add test for multiple shared pipelines !4801
- MDL: Provide a native deepcopy mechanism of Hash !4893
- MDL Devices: Code quality and top layer import !4859
- MDL: Compare configurations !4888
- MDL: Protect against bad timeserver !4908
- MDL: Max queue lengh for pipelines !4909
- MDL: Remove setting loop to None !4727
- MDL: One more fix for the cancel test !4920
- MDL: Fully stop MDL server if requested !4864
- MDL test: Dynamic waiting in macro_test.test_cancel() !4878
- MDL-Native: Reorder packages !4852
- MDL: Add MDL broker API !4719
- MDL: Provide a callNoWait option in the cli !4829
- MDL: Extract attribute modifications from schema !4828
- MDL: Implement VectorRegexString !4758
- MDL: Extract a configuration from a proxy !4807
- MDL: Sanitize a reconfigurable configuration !4826


Graphical User Interface
++++++++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: Add label widget margins !4929
- GUI: Remove minInc maxInc etc. pp. from being editable by GUI !4911
- GUI: Provide enough rendering time for karabo-alarms !4651
- GUI: Calculate scene layout sizehint from children sizehints only when it is invalid !4661
- GUI: Minor typo fixes and constant adjustments for the tips&tricks wizard !4630
- GUI: Enable AccessLevel independent historic data retrieval in the trendgraphs !4635
- GUI: Protocol Skeleton for ConfigurationFromName !4539
- GUI: Add the histogram aux to Detector Graph !4586
- GUI: Destroy ipython console properly !4492
- GUI: Empty table widget !4659
- GUI: Better messages when using configuration from past !4404
- GUI: Show compatibility for min max dependent controllers better !3950
- GUI: Trigger value_update when additional proxies are added !4413
- GUI: Arrow shape model !4333
- GUI: Take into account state updates and fix the range setting for disabling !4444
- GUI: Remove additional value update for the vector xy !4445
- GUI: Hide the labelItem in the aux plots by default !4486
- GUI: Improve Image Graph stats HTML !4693
- GUI: Only enable/disable image graph grayscale features only when type changes !4747
- GUI: Visualize conflicting projects with an alarm icon !4641
- GUI: New protocol for configuration manager !4702
- GUI: Adjust image widget rgb !4517
- GUI: Add optional forwarded channel for updating GUI extensions: !4729
- GUI: No editing of attributes in AccessLevel OBSERVER !4809
- GUI: Account for assignment internal in the configurator !4799
- GUI: Move vector curves addition to add_proxy !4453
- GUI: Refactor scene writer !4443
- GUI: A place for hint widgets !4447
- GUI: Enable readOnly utility in client !4457
- GUI: Implement access level configuration for project toolbar !4461
- GUI: Better access logic for project bar !4465
- GUI: AccessLevel service kill in topology !4462
- GUI: Provide an alarm runner !4468
- GUI: Context menu properly PROJECT EDIT sensitive for devices !4508
- GUI: Cleanup of the network code !4495
- GUI: Run macro from macro panel has access role !4505
- GUI: Fix the initial check state of a device configuration when a device is added !3733
- GUI: Change to Qt5 in controller test !4512
- GUI: Fix vector bar graph !4496
- GUI: Concurrence forwarding of client id !4478
- GUI: Make not working device servers visible in daemon manager widget !4511
- GUI: Enable project concurrence in the GUI client !4509
- GUI: Fix graph toolbar toggling !4519
- GUI: More plot range fixes !4540
- GUI: AccessRole implementation for configurator toolbar !4470
- GUI: Scripting console access role !4467
- GUI: Implement access role for device topology !4471
- GUI: Fix backward compatibility in read and write element !4480
- GUI: Implement access roles in the project view !4497
- GUI: Fix plot log range !4504
- GUI: Extract important part of stack trace of the error dialog !4670
- GUI: Use QDialog for error dialogs instead of QMessageBox !4679
- GUI: Provide the list of named configuration via dialog !4676
- GUI: Save booleans and retrieve them on mac !4681
- GUI: Save configurations from name !4696
- GUI: Make the columns in the daemon table sortable !4699
- GUI: No archive notification before retrieving configuration from past !4527
- GUI: Draw the arrow shape !4334
- GUI: Hide the axis labels when there is no text or unit !4553
- GUI: Set a global Locale !4533
- GUI: Quick path for projects and subprojects comparison on projectUpdate !4518
- GUI: Check for SVG id attributes before temporarily storing !4520
- GUI: Set dragged widgets as initialized !4534
- GUI: Extend image widget for other encodings !4513
- GUI: Show/hide labels in image plots whether there are text/units !4554
- GUI: Delete project device references upon deleting device instance !4560
- GUI: Update x-transform after trigger !4572
- GUI: Provide a Tips&Tricks Wizard !4573
- GUI: Improve visualization of vectors with invalid numbers for VectorBarGraph in log mode !4570
- GUI: Increase the frequency of axis ticks on small widgets !4574
- GUI: Disable only writable widgets on wrong access level !4667
- GUI: Get configuration from name !4677
- GUI: Add an application font !4549
- GUI: Remove patches in AxisItem !4779
- GUI: Provide util function to get array data !4797
- GUI: Add regex edit field !4710
- GUI: Format evaluate expression widget !4784
- GUI: Configurable ROI name !4866
- GUI: Lower the priority to create histogram widgets as default [ci skip] !4839
- GUI: Label configurations from name !4745
- GUI: Adapt to squish testing for high dpi !4760
- GUI: Provide event map in save detail dialog (fix) !4761
- GUI: Configuration dialog from time enhanced !4759
- GUI: Substitute fonts with the Source Pro Family !4767
- GUI: Enhance configuration dialogs with show device option !4769
- GUI: Elide labels when the text is longer than the widget geometry !4766
- GUI: Protect configuration by name saving with regex validator !4770
- GUI: Add scene reader registry !4330
- GUI: Hard deprecate on Knob and soft deprecate on Slider !4435
- GUI: Purge trendline option !4416
- GUI: Compatiblity patch between new scene model readers and gui extensions !4440
- GUI: Clean the Tick Slider !4434
- GUI: Account connection loss in configuration dialogs !4746
- GUI: Enable DPI scaling for application on scaled Windows and Ubuntu desktops !4740
- GUI: Deprecate DoubleWheelEdit controller !4752
- GUI: Change the symbol style of our plots !4749
- GUI: Add vector regex controller !4846
- GUI: Clean and unify NDArray controllers !4847
- GUI: Vector hash validation !4785
- GUI: Again remove assignment internal !4891
- GUI: Fix table parent setting !4853
- GUI: Provide configuration from name dialog in device topology !4861
- GUI: Add clock icon to trendline requst time !4868
- GUI: Combine histogram graphs in a single controller !4858
- GUI: No project saving if you are not allowed !4865
- GUI: Prevent unnecessary request for config save when device is offline !4871
- GUI: Consider deleted rows when comparing vector hash !4887
- GUI: Sanitize an init configuration, delete readonly and internal parts !4800
- GUI: Destroy trendlines properly to protect against historic data !4805
- GUI: Provide a header in the table view on init !4804
- GUI: Provide Histogram Controller for NDArrays !4813
- GUI: Add test for binding types, check if numpy type is preserved !4820
- GUI: provide full array graph support !4810
- GUI: Separate/move validators !4822
- GUI: Deprecate grid for the time beeing in the layout !4751
- GUI: Make sure windows stay on top for message boxes and listConfig dialog !4739
- GUI: Provide a clock icon (first) !4776
- GUI: New font dialog !4774
- GUI: Always provide a new date time for start of new trendline !4778
- GUI: Include fonts in package_data !4780
- GUI: Remove a few LegendItem patches !4782
- GUI: Avoid loading values in the configurator that does not conform to current property type !4629
- GUI: Provide request time interval feature for trendline on viewBox menu !4775
- GUI: Propagate closing of undocked Panels correctly to their Containers !4781
- GUI: Destroy messagebox properly !4783
- GUI: Quietly record the layout children geomerty in their model !4750
- GUI: Fix typos for the daemon action !4789
- GUI: Remove undocked panel !4788
- GUI: Strip about device dialog (pretty) !4875
- GUI: Logindialog must stay on top !4882
- GUI: Display the whole error message if it's short !4883
- GUI: Update lttbc !4885
- GUI: Destroy table model from configurator !4886
- GUI: Add NDArray RollGraph !4857
- GUI: Don't stack on top the conf dialogs but raise them !4872
- GUI: Enable copying of messagebox text !4873
- GUI: Add ndarray support for vector bar !4860
- GUI: Change tickfont for axis items, increase size !4919
- GUI: Show project panel dialogs on mouse cursor !4903
- GUI: Use vector regex validation in list dialog !4923
- GUI: Fight message box strong modality !4926
- GUI: Use widget size hint if model geometry is None !4928
- GUI: Fix float / numpy, reliagn hash and table validation !4910
- GUI: Fix scene widget model geometry check !4914
- GUI: Fix label initial size hint !4917
- GUI: Always request list of configurations at start in configuration from name dialog !4901
- GUI: Make sure console is closed on disconnect !4904
- GUI: Draw boundary correctly !4906
- GUI: Make generic trendline wider for more labels !4894
- GUI: Respect model geometry by reflecting it to widget size hint !4798
- GUI: Show topology on show device in dialogs !4895
