..
  Copyright (C) European XFEL GmbH Schenefeld. All rights reserved.

***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.7
***************************

The Macro's can have a new Slot, the MacroSlot that moves the executed function to a background task.
In this release, the middlelayer can have output channels in nodes and the gui server prints client meta information
to the logfile.

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- MDL: Fix schema hash after update for proxies
- MDL: Cherry pick Macro Slot for 2.13.X
- MDL: Support output channel in nodes
- C++: Gui server login info collection


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.6
***************************

Version strongly harden the middlelayer device server shutdown procedure. In addition, the long
term gui server pipeline reconnection bug is fixed.
Middlelayer gets an important bugfix to be able to have pipelining with the DAQ on queueDrop policy.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- Macro: Protect IPython SlotKillDevice from hanging manager kernels
- MDL: Cherry pick server and device shutdown fixes
- MDL: Fix maxQueueLength for queueDrop
- C++: Fix that pipeline re-connection cycle can get broken
- Influx: Fix for ever-growing schema's m_archive of a device being logged


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.5
***************************

Another hotfix release dedicated to the datalogging backend. Datalogger blocklist feature included.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- C++: Protected signal container handling (and deprecate dead code)
- Influx: Add support for max schema logging rate for a device
- C++: Don't skip forceDeviceToBeLogged when the logger is behind the device update time
- DataLoggerManager blocklist


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.4
***************************

Version aimed to for the datalogging backend.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- MDL: Always provide the correct stack trace if available

- C++ loggers: No logging re-enforcement if not needed
- C++ Influx: Reject too long vectors, but log all rejections in DB
- C++ influx: Do not wait for connection with mutex locked
- C++: GuiServerDevice synchronisation fix
- C++: More pipeline info in GuiServer debug dump
- C++: Gui server keeps registered pipelines
- C++: 2_13_hotfix_lograte



***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.3
***************************

Version aimed mainly at data logger installations

The DataLogger system will now record the device's configurations and schemas
regardless of the value of a device's ``archive`` flag.

A new function in the C++ library to parse Urls is added as a convenience tool.


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.2
***************************

Version aimed mainly at data logger installations on InfluxDB backend.
The usecases of data older than the device's age is now handled to
avoid unwanted old values for properties that do not have a default value.

The Output Channel for the C++ and Python Bound API handles in a
cleaner way the underlying TCP server's lifetime. This addresses
the connection loss after output schema injection.


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.1
***************************

Version aimed at addressing a bug in the middlelayer macros,
potentially causing broker pileup events.


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.13.0
***************************

This section shows the new features in Karabo 2.13.0, compared to 2.12.0.

Summary – Release highlights
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- MDL: DeviceNode always provides a value now. This removes the online to offline configuration problem for device nodes.
- GUI Server/Client: Offers a Banner feature for notifications to all clients
- MACRO: Macros using a bare ``try: except:`` are blocked thus solving some thread starving problems on macro servers.
- GUI Server will now monitor misbehaving clients and cut the connection to avoid memory ballooning.
- MDL: Device/Configurable `set(h: Hash)` method to set a bulk Hash with timestamps on the device or Configurable
- MDL: Get the parent device inside a device or configurable with `Configurable.get_root()`
- GUI: Trendline can offer a window mode (on right click) to follow updates with a custom sized window

Breaking Changes
++++++++++++++++

None

Change of behaviour
+++++++++++++++++++

None

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

Bound/cpp core
==============

- C++: Better fix for size validation of vector elements of char and unsigned char. !5902
- C++: Fix to re-enable special node treatment in Hash::set(key, Hash::Node). !5940  RM- 108699
- C++/bound: Allow also specification of defaultValue for read-only. !5941
- Core Devices: Support a generic protocol on the alarm service. !5893
- GuiServerDevice monitors client queues. !5942 RM-#107136
- GuiServerDevice: remove delayOnInput minimum. !5961
- GuiServerDevice: GuiServer with slotNotify and client banner  feature. !5945
- GuiServerDevice: GuiServer's slotNotify color options. !5955
- GuiServerDevice: Add a client broadcast slot for the GUI Server. !5954

MDL/Native core
===============

- MDL: MetaProxy for deviceNode to supply always a value. !5908
- MDL: Provide a bulk set for the Configurable. !5928
- MDL: Device template now runs tests. !5936
- MDL: UserWarning for DeviceNode. !5932
- INFLUX: cleanup python client. !5943
- MDL: Provide function for getInstanceInfo. !5948
- MACRO: Block unstoppable macros. !5969
- MDL: Provide get_root on the Configurable. !5964
- Native: Protect against threaded access for hash deepcopy. !5919

Dependencies and deployment
===========================

- DEPS: Allow Debian as distro for nss builiding. !5926
- "compile_commands.json" for C++ CMake devices. ".gitignore" fix.. !5911
- DEPS: Add pg8000 (pure Python Postgres Db Driver) to Karabo Framework dependencies.. !5923
- DEPS: Adds amqp-cpp Conda package to the karabo-cpp dependencies. !5885

Documentation
=============

- Document 2.12.0 more. !5917
- DOC: Document 2.10.X onwards. !5870
- DOC: Expose 2.13 changes and formatting of 2.12. !5918

Tests
=====

- FIX: Raise error on tests failure plus gui server device fix. !5944


Graphical User Interface
========================

- GUI: Test the textedit dialog. !5907
- GUI: Move panel uis into a folder and cleanup. !5896
- GUI: Enable dict like proxy access. !5912
- GUI: Test more carefully the manager singleton. !5897
- GUI: Provide public config and schema handlers. !5913
- GUI: Clean daemon controller action. !5914
- GUI: Remove the handle scene from server handler. !5915
- GUI: Provide a get macro function and cleanup... add tests for requests. !5920
- GUI: Add test for theatre. !5921
- GUI: Test the karabo cinema. !5922
- GUI: Basic path parser test. !5924
- GUI: Exec compatiblity with future qt versions. !5929
- GUI: Test the common axes dialog. !5933
- GUI: Increase priority of default controllers for alarm and state. !5935
- GUI: Provide a WindowMode for the trendline. !5927
- GUI: Fix the translation of the images for external clients. !5939
- GUI: Add missing translation test for images. !5947
- GUI: no popup if no message is received. !5951
- GUI: Provide a banner interface for the server. !5952
- GUI: Use natsort for sorting devices. !5956
- GUI: A bit for the contributing. !5962
- GUI: fix karabo documentation link. !5968
