..
  Copyright (C) European XFEL GmbH Schenefeld. All rights reserved.

***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.14.2
***************************

This hotfix release aims to strenghthen the core backend.

- The data logger manager receives a blocklist feature.
- The Gui Server pipeline bug fix is backported
- For the GUI Client the online schema is always synchronized

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: Always synchronize online schema for devices
- GUI: Fix the pipeline counter for schema evolution
- Macro: Protect IPython SlotKillDevice from hanging manager kernels
- C++ influx: Do not wait for connection with mutex locked
- C++: More pipeline info in GuiServer debug dump
- C++: GuiServerDevice synchronisation fix
- C++: Gui server keeps registered pipelines
- Bound Integration Tests: Increase timeout
- Bound: Fix regression of zombie device killing
- C++ loggers: No logging re-enforcement if not needed
- C++ Influx: Reject too long vectors, but log all rejections in DB
- C++: Reject device log entries while above a logging rate threshold
- Influx: Add support for max schema logging rate for a device
- C++: Don't skip forceDeviceToBeLogged when the logger is behind the device update time
- Influx: Fetch Schema until the buffer is done; test for fixes in !6470 and !6478
- DataLoggerManager blocklist


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.14.1
***************************

The hotfix release provides direct fixes for the plotting library in the KaraboGui.
Before non-infinite (or close) data could cause segmentations faults
in the level setting of the image widgets.
Furthermore, the analysis (profiling) for images is further protected from infinite ranges, causing
problems (graph viewbox range and weighting fit).
The Command Button receives a protection against schema evolution, otherwise a scene with an
outdated device command could not be opened anymore.

Important for developers, the device class schemas are now tracked and properly
erased for the first time. Otherwise it can be that after a restart, still the wrong class schema is cached.

In case of the middlelayer api, the background tasks ALWAYS provide a proper stacktrace now.

The bound api receives a fix to throw an exception if the opened NDArray is inconsistent with the specified shape.
In C++ the signal connection with proctected now. This fix is a candidate to fix the lost signal connection
in the framework.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: Fix the log message of bad disconnect !6284
- GUI: Remove class schemas on server !6278
- GUI: Protect levels dialog from segfaulting, slider protection !6276
- GUI: Protect range slider from handle movement to a threshold !6310
- GUI: Prevent viewbox exceptions in profiling !6296
- GUI: Ensure class schema for project devices when shown in configurator !6290
- GUI: Fix image profiling when weighted with zeros !6311
- GUI: Protect against schema evolution on the command controller !6309
- Bound: Raise on inconsistent NDArray in Hash !6288
- MDL: Always provide the correct stack trace if available !6293
- C++: Protected signal container handling (and deprecate dead code) !6289


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.14.0
***************************

This section shows the new features in Karabo 2.14.0, compared to 2.13.0.

This Karabo release has an important Python dependency update: ``numpy`` and ``pint``. The new ``ufunc`` protocol
is utilized and a few functions are currently not supported by pint. Please have a look in the breaking changes.

The use of this version of the GUI is encouraged without the need of upgrading the Karabo Servers.
This release is backwards compatible until version 2.11.

Summary – Release highlights
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- It is possible to view device server logs via the karaboGui by double-clicking
  on a device server in the topology or project. For this the slot *slotLoggerContent*
  was added to all api device servers.
- GUI: The karaboGui offers now the Online to Offline configuration feature. Right click on
  the device in the project will show this option.
  Note: This does only apply for properties that are present in the static schema of a device.
- CMake is now the build system of the karabo C++ API.
- The Python Bound API has an `AsyncReply` feature.
- AlmaLinux8 is added to the supported operating systems.
- The pipeline data tranfer for middlelayer is >20% faster then the previous releases.
- Several important python packages have been updated.

    - numpy 1.15.4 -> 1.21.4
    - pint 0.7.1 -> 0.17
    - scipy 1.5.4 -> 1.6.3
    - pyzmq 18.1.0 -> 22.3.0
    - cython 0.29.21 -> 0.29.24

- It is possible to reconfigure the logging level (priority) via the karaboGui with a context
  menu action on a device server.
- MDL: `has_changes(old, new)` function added to the `karabo.native`
- MDL: `Configurable.set` now gets a keyword argument: `only_changes` to only set changed properties.
- MDL: The `TableValue` gets a new method: `TableValue.to_hashlist()` for conversion.
- GUI: Table offers more options to show colors with `TableColor` displaytype, progressbars with
  `TableProgressBar` display type, etc. Please check the *HowToMiddlelayer* documentation for details.
- GUI: As new controller filter table elements are now available. The column can be configured in the
  controller properties.
- GUI: It is possible to import an image directly on the scene with a new scene tool. This image
  can be freely moved and viewed as well in `Inkscape`.
- GUI: Inkscape like key events added to the scene for grouping and ungrouping of elements.
- GUI: New scene tool for alignments of widgets added to the toolbar.


Breaking Changes
++++++++++++++++

- The following functions are not supported with KaraboValues: ``numpy.positive``, ``numpy.divmod``, ``numpy.heaviside``,
  ``numpy.gcd``, ``numpy.lcm``, ``numpy.bitwise_and``, ``numpy.bitwise_xor``, ``numpy.bitwise_or``, ``numpy.invert``,
  ``numpy.left_shift``, ``numpy.right_shift``, ``numpy.logical_and``, ``numpy.logical_or``, ``numpy.logical_xor``,
  ``numpy.logical_not``, ``numpy.spacing``
- ``numpy.mean`` and ``numpy.std`` do not work anymore with ``QuantityValues`` that have a number (see examples below).
- GUI: The graphical user interface only remembers a single last used directory now. Before
       it was separating for scenes, configs, etc.

Change of behaviour
+++++++++++++++++++

- Instantiantion of devices from all APIs now return after the "object connstruction" phase is completed.
  No code change is required on device level.

- The DataLoggers will ignore the ``archive`` flag and always archive a devices' conditions regardless of the
  value of this boolean.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

This is a temporary dump of the 234 Merge Requests summaries in since 2.13.0.

- C++: Remove higher gui server heartbeat frequency
- DOC: document 2.13.0
- DOC: format bullet points correctly for 2.13 release notes
- DOC: add release notes template
- C++: Fix that argument of slotReconfigure can specify timestamp
- Bound API: Remove deprecated functions in device
- DataLogger Manager: State ON
- Bound: Fix that slotReconfigure could erroneously specify timestamp
- Bound: Protect Python handler destruction with GIL for receiveAsync
- BUILD: Configure the number of cores for build
- INFLUX: python client handles errors
- Bound: Add AsyncReply for delayed slot replys
- MDL: Provide TableValue converter for HashList
- Native: Prepare pint upgrade
- CI: run python tests on configured brokers
- CI: Split Build and test jobs
- Deps mr pint numpy
- MDL: Remove pint compatibility module
- MDL: Remove array interface hack
- DOC: Correct Copyright statement
- Merge branch 'deps-mr-scipy-numpy-pint-pyzmq' into 'master'
- MDL: postpone init for DeviceNode to a separate step
- MDL: Provide online knowledge and make tests backward compatible
- MDL: Rename and document publicly is_initialized
- DOC: make a small paragraph on licensing
- Document more dependency changes
- GUI: Show tooltip with keys for unknown widget
- C++: Minor fix for slotGetOutputChannelInformationFromHash
- MDL: Deprecate build karabo value
- GUI Server: Set timeout on instantiation
- DOC: list steps for the public release
- MDL: Provide information about device server log level in instanceInfo
- MDL: Initialization replies after validation
- C++: SignalSlotable disables removed output channels and their tcp remnants
- Fix flushing in MDL device servers
- Karathon: Make operator const
- MDL: Only wait for a limited time on preInitialization
- GUI: Add a range slider to the repertoire
- Influx: Mangle timestamp that date back to before logging started
- Bound: event loop post
- MDL: Release device test in init procedure after a period
- GUI: Add range slider to levels dialog
- C++ long tests: Fix compilation that was broken after merging !5953
- MDL: Fix DeviceNodes in Nodes and add a timeout to DeviceNode for backward compat
- C++: Smoother and (slightly) faster OrderedMap::set, used in Hash::set
- MDL: Remove exception in instance handling of eventloop
- GUI: handle tag-like errors in dialogs
- GUI: Add tooltip on project load dialog for devices
- FW: Document more functions
- MDL: Remove unnecessary eventloop sheduling
- Native: Add an additional test for is_equal
- MDL: Fix property test device uint vector defautl value
- Native: Fix some documentation formatting
- Fix more documentation formatting
- C++: Data logger manager init failure causes error state
- GUI: Online to offline configuration
- Bound: proper reply for slotStartDevice
- Fix for data logging integration tests getting stuck on tearDown.
- GUI: Extend Signalblocker for multiple widgets
- MDL: Test specials np inf and nan for descriptor min and max
- GUI: Little clean in range slider and state sunken
- GUI: Dynamic levels setting of dialog
- GUI: Add toolbar test
- Native: Provide only changes wrapper
- Bound integration tests: Do not wait forever on event loop thread joining
- GUI: Fix resize scene test with robust mediator
- Native: Provide compare module
- GUI: Provide public api
- MDL: Add a set_property to the framework
- Document more library functions
- Merge branch 'eventLoopTuning' into 'master'
- C++ integration test: Softer time stamp limit
- MDL: Use 25 seconds as wait time for device instantiation
- Bound: Device stays up if initialisation fails (and instantiation does not block)
- GUI: More in karabogui.api
- Setup C++ source code formatting based on clang tools (MR 1 of 3)
- Bound: Enable error handling for asynchronous requests to slot
- GUI: Fix blocked MacOS client
- CI: split c++ and python unit tests jobs
- C++ tests: Make extra proof that either success- or errorHandler get called
- GUI: Enable to subclass table model
- GUI: Extend base table controller
- Common: Code quality test
- MDL: Profiler for async funcs and doc
- GUI: Cleaning has_changes
- GUI: Enable dynamic table width for table dialog of Configurator
- GUI: Use log level info to set the default in setLoggerPriority
- FW: Clean conf.py
- GUI: Fix some mediator clashes in tests
- GUI: Move compare function to utils and cleanup
- MDL: Better exception message
- GUI: Clean and delete compare module
- GUI: Clean topology utils and add is_device_online
- MDL: Revert MR 6011
- MDL: fix topology test fragility
- MDL: better comment in topology tests
- CI: process and upload C++ tests report
- GUI: Clean imports and stirng format ipython widget
- Fine-tuning and simplification of clang-format configuration.
- Native: Use has_changes in configurable instead of is equal
- C++: Refactor exception messages
- GUI: Clean const file
- FW: Update known issues
- Fix for some header includes that were order-dependent.
- Upgrade brokerMessageLogger to support more brokers
- MDL: Document more functions and the Hash
- FEAT: better dependency build logs
- FEAT: dependency build log follow up
- Clang-format the C++ source files of the Framework in one bulk.
- MDL: Enhance profiler
- GUI: Enhance profiling decorator
- C++ integration tests: Avoid compiler warnings
- GUI: Test the label widget
- FW: Deprecate editable attribute daqPolicy
- C++: Remove tautological short error message prefix
- DEPS: build dependencies for AlmaLinux
- TOOLS: add prerelease job for AlmaLinux
- MDL: Use iscoroutinefunction in utils
- GUI: Add action to resize to contents to the table
- Lint format of C++ source files and corresponding git pre-commit hook.
- MDL: Fix device server uniqueness and server kill
- MDL: Enhance removeQuantity decorator
- GUI: Allow to resize header with clicking
- GUI: Provide ui folder for controllers and fix time graph actions
- C++: Fix formatting errors
- GUI: Directly offer Image import for scenes
- Script to Lint modified C++ and Python files.
- Merge branch 'fix/removeStrandInAmqpClient' into 'master'
- MDL: Device instances have a weakref to their server
- GUI: Provide data dir and use for images
- TOOLS: add package target to C++ device template
- TOOLS: actually build for almalinux
- Fix minor clang-format divergences.
- MDL: Fix the server weakref
- Requirement for minimal clang-format version in lint scripts.
- Common: Change font in scene2py
- Fix name of karabo lib import target generated by cmake install.
- GUI: Little performance tweak table
- GUI: Add development mode for the GUI
- Fix for non relocatable Karabo import lib.
- C++: Fix missing quote in lock exception message
- Add net::parseGenericUrl function
- MDL: make a macro provide its own code
- C++: Enable exceptions to provide details separated from main message.
- Bound: Enhance conversion of Karabo C++ to Python exceptions
- Move 'cmake_auto_build_all' to 'auto_build_all.sh'. Fix CodeCoverage broken build.
- MDL: No empty table schema allowed
- Merge branch 'remove_netbeans' into 'master'
- All API: Error reply with details
- MDL: Remove archive from the schema
- C++/BOUND: Remove archive from the schema
- Bound: Full use of slot failure API extended to provide details
- C++ test: Increase timeout for slot calls
- Bound: Unify exception trace extraction for SlotWrap and HandlerWrap
- TEST: remove remote_console test
- GUI: Only send subscribeToLogs after login
- GUI: Show proper tooltip for buttons (deviceId.key)
- MDL: Deprecate archivePolicy for descriptors
- C++: Fix exception message order in userFriendlyMsg()
- GUI: Table without resizeToContents stretches last column
- GUI: Fix legacy table behavior for subclassing own models
- MDL: Provide a slot call to get last logged events
- GUI: Remember dir in data saving of our plots
- Fix for C++ code coverage builds.
- GUI: Provide correct access level setting for controllers
- DOC: document 2.13 path releases
- GUI: Fix race between widget destroy and scene destroy
- GUI: Add a filter table controller
- GUI: Fix refreshing class schema for project devices in configurator after reinstallation
- REDIS: Fix device shutdown process
- GUI: Deprecate dir storage for a single one
- GUI: Don't disable readOnly booleans anymore in the table
- GUI: BoolButton, NumberColor and StringColor Delegate for Tables
- Merge branch 'kluyvert-doc-install-gui-code-blocks' into 'master'
- Add partial deserialization support
- Extend brokerRates app to work with all supported brokers
- TOOLS: fix relative link in C++ device template
- GUI: Document a bit the internals of the GUI
- C++: remove symbolic links
- BOUND: Fix segfault when DeviceClient overlaps getDevices calls and device monitor callbacks.
- C++: Logger clean up and format adjustment
- C++: refactor all options to be vectors
- MDL: Remove coroutine decorator in sigslot
- C++: add a CacheAppender to the loggers
- Add GUI API documentation
- Fix document formatting for gui api
- CI: Optimize the builds and remove netbeans
- TOOLS: add a docker monitor for karabo
- Merge branch 'h5_vec_char_as_attribute' into 'h5_empty_default_value_for_array_types'
- DEPS: add pytest-cov
- GUI: Table, provide tooltip for header and value for cell
- GUI: Allow log retrieval from topology
- GUI: Enhance to non modal log dialogs
- MDL: Move cache log to network
- MDL: Allow specification of subnet in output channels
- GUI: skip scene retrieval for devices without scenes
- BOUND: Implement slotLoggerContent
- GUI: Correct network message for requestGeneric
- DOC: document 2.14
- GUI: Use common versioning
- Merge branch 'h5_empty_default_value_for_array_types' into 'master'
- GUI: Add log dialog for project servers
- GUI: Group the move actions
- NATIVE: has_changes works for both None values
- Add compareConfigurationsFromPast
- GUI: Log disconnect from gui server
- C++/bound: Enable setSpecialDisplayType for all types
- GUI: Enhance log-dialog sizing of rows and columns
- GUI: Allow inkscape like keyevents for grouping and ungrouping
- GUI: Scroll to bottom (newest) log on update and utilize request button
- MDL: Fix file_db project scenes
- C++/bound: Dump Karabo version to log file
- MDL: file_db use base class serialisation method
- GUI: Take into account assignment internal when saniziting configurations
- MDL: Run coro threadsafe in start device of eventloop
- C++: Allow specification of subnet in output channels
- C++: remove temporary change
- GUI: Account for Assignment.INTERNAL on configuration loading
- GUI: Make sure global log panel shows ISO string
- GUI: Offer to remove proxies from a basebinding controller
- Merge branch 'align-objects' into 'master'
- Bound: Error message states name of wrapped Python function
- C++: Improve handling of exceptions thrown within a slot
- MDL: request new chunk before processing
- Bound: Update instanceInfo with log priority
- MDL: Fix macro server test
- MDL: Async context disconnect
- MDL: DaemonManager uses Karabo Server Ids
- auto_build_all: clean-up the install tree skipping some directories of interest.
- C++: View the log level in the instanceInfo for a device server
- MDL: Remove deprecation warning for archivePolicy
- GUI: Provide Filter Table Controller
- C++: Use delimiter to separate short error from details for GUI client
- GUI: Make use of explicit failure details
- A bit more documentation


Examples (Numpy - KaraboValues)
===============================

.. code-block:: python

    def test_mean(self):
        # THIS DOES NOT WORK
        a = QuantityValue(3, "m", timestamp=self.t1)
        b = QuantityValue(1000, "mm", timestamp=self.t2)
        # Needs unit less values
        with self.assertRaises(ValueError):
            numpy.mean([a, b])

    def test_mean_no_dim(self):
        # THIS WORKS PARTIALLY
        a = QuantityValue(3, timestamp=self.t1)
        b = QuantityValue(1000, timestamp=self.t2)
        # unit less values works
        m = numpy.mean([a, b])
        self.assertEqual(m, 501.5)
        # We have a float now, no timestamp
        self.assertIsInstance(m, float)

    def test_mean_array(self):
        # THIS WORKS
        a = QuantityValue(numpy.array([1, 2, 3, 4]), timestamp=self.t1)
        m = numpy.mean(a)
        self.assertEqual(m, 2.5 * unit.dimensionless)
        self.assertEqual(m.timestamp, self.t1)

        b = QuantityValue(numpy.array([1, 2, 3, 4]), "m",
                          timestamp=self.t1)
        m = numpy.mean(b)
        self.assertEqual(m, 2.5 * unit.meter)
        self.assertEqual(m.timestamp, self.t1)
