***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.15.4
***************************

This patch release fixes a connection issue found in operation
for middlelayer devices, a minor GUI client issue related to an erroneous deprecation,
and enable the GUI client to use a new class of editable widgets available via the
GUI extensions.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: Allow multiple proxies for editable controllers
- MDL: More simple infinite input channel connection. Avoid infinite stack traces
- MDL: Fix re/connection to pipeline with injected output channel
       and protect handlers with a timeout https://redmine.xfel.eu/issues/134851
- GUI: Allow historic widget to be saved and loaded on scene
- SceneModel: Compatibility IntSpinbox

***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.15.3
***************************

This patch release aims to fix a few GUI client issues found in operation
and test.
Resize of plot panels will properly align the data https://redmine.xfel.eu/issues/132113
and PopUp dialogs from the configurator will not cause a segmentation fault on corner cases.

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: Another popup precaution for the configurator
- GUI: Fix stacked widget layout of icons dialog
- GUI: Keep popup after schema injection
- GUI: Call updateMatrix on resizing plot https://redmine.xfel.eu/issues/132113
- GUI: Close configurator popup on assigning new proxies
- GUI: Close popup in index changes in the configurator view

***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.15.2
***************************

This patch release aims to fix a few GUI bugs and a few framework optimizations
for early adopters.

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: Set focus policy on combobox https://redmine.xfel.eu/issues/131743
- GUI: Make sure editable controllers have strong focus
- GUI: Sticker Widget - Make font size in sync https://redmine.xfel.eu/issues/131225
- TOOLS: fix build system for windows
- MDL: Fix proxy reconnect on CLI
- Bound: Do not spam log with warnings for caught exceptions

***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.15.1
***************************

This hotfix release aims to fix a day one issue of 2.15.0 on high density screens

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: check properly QT version !6609

***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.15.0
***************************

This section shows the new features in Karabo 2.15.0, compared to 2.14.0.
The use of this version of the GUI is encouraged without the need of upgrading the Karabo Servers.
This release is **backwards compatible** until version **2.11**.

This Karabo release contains a ``numpy`` dependency of: **1.21.4**

Summary – Release highlights
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- Macro: MacroSlot decorator added that moves executed functions to a background task. These tasks can
  be cancelled with the `Cancel` slot of the macro.
- GuiServer: The pipeline reconnection bug preventing image updates in the graphical user interface was fixed.
- GUI: HistoricText Widget for historic string data available on double-click in Configurator and Scene.
- GUI: Optional Search in Configurator Panel added
- GUI: Rework of Logging and Alarm Panel for performance and filtering options
- GUI: TableStringButton added to the framework for device scene links and urls
- GUI: Font size editing for Spin and Double spin boxes as well as Command Widgets (Buttons)
- GUI: In general there are major performance improvements for the table widgets (up to >10),
  Configurator (more than 2), image updates and Device/Schema Building (around a factor of 2).
- GUI: Macro Editor handling: Indent, Unindent on key events and search / replace bar added to code editor.
- MDL: Both InputChannel and OutputChannel are supported in Nodes
- MDL: Proxies created with *getDevice* (e.g. DeviceNode) retrieve a configuration only once
- MDL: Shutdown of devices and servers is hardened against device hanging or faulty jupyter kernel shutdown. A device server will always
  terminate the process at the end.
- MDL: *printHistory* and *getTimeInfo* added to CLI commands.
- MDL: Devices on the same device server can shortcut the broker communication and coordinate or communicate with each other. See below
  in the examples section a possible Motor and controller scenario. This deprecates the dependency `middlelayer-shared`.
- MDL: Full pytest support and test template including pytest dependencies for asyncio, timeout, mock, and subtest.
- MDL: A new Hash view showing the data type for each value and a table for table values was implemented
- MDL: Better table value handling, e.g. Hashes can be set to single cells, filtering options with `TableValue.where_value`.
- C++: DeviceClient support for synchronous execution of slot with args
- Core Devices: New DaemonManager using the TableBoolButton interface with Start/Restart and Stop button
- Core Devices: Webaggregator now uses the unmangled karabo service name. This means that servers appear with their
  correct serverId in the service manager table.

Breaking Changes
++++++++++++++++


Change of behaviour
+++++++++++++++++++

- C++/Bound: Both C++ and Bound devices will shutdown if they experience an exception in their initialization method, to synchronize with MDL.
- MDL: Default values of vector properties are now fully casted to their numpy dtype. Before the first element
  was considered only for simple types (int, float). Now 64 bit values are possible as well.

.. code-block:: python

    int32 = VectorInt32(
        defaultValue=[1, 2, 3])

    int32.descriptor.defaultValue -> [np.int32(1), np.int32(2), np.int32(3)]

- MDL: Using i-operators in KaraboValues will set the timestamp to `None`.
  This means that in a `Device` a new timestamp is generated afterwards.

.. code-block:: python

    int32 = Int32(
        defaultValue=1)

    def increase(self):
        self.int32 += 1  # This will provide a new timestamp on device property!

- GUI: A few widgets have been removed: AnalogWidget, IconSet and FileIn/Out controllers.
- GUI: The Icon Widget can handle string as replacement for IconSet
- GUI: The client will prevent adding "backbone" devices to projects. Pre-existing Devices will not be modified.
- GUI: The alarm columns in the Navigation and Project Panel are now by default hidden.
  The reason is that extra alarms visualization is performance draining. The visibility can be toggled
  on in the `Application Configuration` dialog of the menu bar. Changes in this configuration
  will be active after application restart. This information is now logged by the GUI server.
  The `AlarmPanel` now have a ``deviceId`` search option, please consider using this instead.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++


Documentation
=============

- Add tabulate to mock in docs !6333
- Update requirements for docs !6332
- Document 2.14.1 hotfix release !6325
- DOC: Information on alarms in project and navigation [ci skip] !6560
- DOC: expand 2.14.0 documentation !6239
- DOC: Make documentation 'Remote Installation' step clearer. !6346


Bound/cpp core
==============


- C++: Proper use of util::Exception::what(), more robust device test !6577
- C++: Fix that pipeline re-connection cycle can get broken !6491
- C++: Do not catch exceptions in SchemaBinarySerializer !6369
- C++: Fix implicit default value of readOnly table !6368
- C++ influx: Do not wait for connection with mutex locked
- C++: Protected signal container handling (and remove dead code) !6279
- C++ Influx: Reject too long vectors, but log all rejections in DB !6238
- C++: remove unused FSM features from core devices 6181
- C++: reduce boiler plate code in net::Broker_Test !6396
- C++: make the xms::SignalSlotable_Test parametric !6395
- C++: make the net::Broker_Test parametric !6389
- C++: Device shuts down when receiving an error in initialization !6387
- C++: refactor test code handling broker env. vars !6398
- C++: DeviceClient support for synchronous execution of slot with args. !5977
- C++: Add a function to load the last schema in a sequence and use it in the InfluxDataLogger. !6484
- Bound: Kill a device when it comes faulty !6384
- Bound: Remove Motor and CameraInterface !6339
- Bound: Exceptions in preDestruction should not prevent device shutdown. !6406
- Bound: Fix regression of zombie device killing !6124
- Bound: Add/improve function doc strings for pipelining and p2p !6514
- Bound: Raise on inconsistent NDArray in Hash !6287
- C++/Bound: Better device instantiation failure reply !6230


MDL/Native core
===============

- Native: Better TableValue repr !6340
- Native: Where_value returns TableValue !6308
- Native: Use tabulate in html hash !6364
- Native: Has_changes uses floating point tolerance only for floating vectors !6350
- Native: Skip flaky time mixin test on macos !6534
- Native: Preserve dtype of vector elements !6492
- MDL: slimmer compat imports !6457
- MDL: set the karabo slot name in lastCommand !6233
- MDL: Support output channel in nodes !6571
- MDL: Unify broker api for overview !6542
- MDL: Fix schema hash after update for proxies !6536
- MDL: Add missing functions to package !6540
- MDL: Fix queue pipelining with faulty maxQueue value !6508
- MDL: Make sure vector defaults are casted !6488
- MDL: Log who requested server shutdown !6461
- MDL: Align async with and with behavior !6447
- MDL: Provide a message if shutdown by daemon !6467
- MDL: InstanceId becomes None when no message is provided in server shutdown !6473
- MDL: Make sure a server process is terminated !6459
- MDL: Fix macro device instantiation cancellation !6455
- MDL: Fix device shutdown !6458
- MDL: getDevice behaves on ikarabo as default !6449
- MDL: Provide a MacroSlot for background tasks !6431
- MDL: Always connect a proxy on startup !6438
- MDL: Fix manual disconnection in proxy !6439
- MDL: Catch exceptions in onDestruction !6407
- MDL: Ensure low delay in pipeline !6386
- MDL: Bunch injections for protections !6391
- MDL: Fix unhandled exception in Redis reader !6342
- MDL: Explicit connection closure at the end of device lifetime !6335
- MDL: Correction to MR!6315. !6324
- MDL: Fix closure in Redis that works for test_topology !6315
- MDL: Fix shutdown process in MDL !6313
- MDL: Support for reading of log messages for non-JMS brokers !6249
- MDL: Make MDL a package !6270
- MDL: Swap testing to pytest example !6260
- MDL: Provide a table default row option !6244
- MDL: Fix initial instanceInfo for device servers !6297
- MDL: Remove one conversion for comparison in daemon manager. !6351
- MDL: Provide a new hash view !6266
- MDL: Document more the localdevice option !6334
- MDL: Remove pitfall of i operators !6259
- MDL: Use tabulate for Hashlist representation !6331
- MDL: Allow Noded InputChannel !6245
- MDL: Use a weakref in mdl device context !6304
- MDL: Enhance getSchema to check for state dependent schema !6280
- MDL: Provide device shortcut possibility !6322
- MDL: Move sleep in scanPluginsloop to wait for the instanceInfo to be set !6252
- MDL: Wait for instanceInfos to arrive !6258
- MDL: Add external testing module !6250
- MDL: Provide easy filtering operations for table values !6242
- MDL: Only connect once in device node !6243
- MDL: Python compat drain lock in pipelining !6246
- MDL: Modify context with timeout and merge instances !6256
- MDL: Add device context for pytest asyncio !6248
- MDL: Use an async context for the proxy killer !6225
- MDL: Enable setting of Hashes as rows in table element and provide columnIndex function !6241
- MDL: Add isort to templates !6237
- MDL: Include tests in the future for flake8 !6236
- MDL: Always provide the correct stack trace if available !6286
- MDL: Provide an init variable for channelName !6285
- MDL: Add function for getClassSchema !6274
- MDL: Don't use deprecated numpy type in ndarray !6292
- MDL: Provide better HashList repr !6267
- MDL: getTimeInfo function to retrieve ticking information and latency !6257
- MDL: Add printHistory for nice history print !6414
- MDL: Timestamp.toLocal with selectable separator !6434
- MDL: Dump Karabo version to log file !6317
- MDL: Better instantiation failure report. If instantiation fails due to unknown class, add id of missing class to instantiation failure exception.
- Macro API: Include listDeviceInstantiators !6261
- Macro: Activate cli remote timeout test !6456
- Macro: Protect IPython SlotKillDevice from hanging manager kernels !6451
- Macro: Don't miss an output print for macros !6416
- Macro: do not archive CLI devices !6409
- Common: Cure potential circular import in graph model files !6390
- Common: Provide WeakMethodRef in Karabo.common !6437
- Common: Do some code formatting !6336


Dependencies and deployment
===========================


- DEPS: Add tabulate to conda recipes !6330
- DEPS: python using tkinter !5892
- DEPS: use the new web host for miniconda !6338
- DEPS: enable Debian-10 build !6373
- DEPS: Add pytest timeout to dependencies !6411
- DEPS: Add pytest-mock and pytest-subtests to the framework !6264
- DEPS: Add tabulate to dependencies !6329
- DEPS: Add pytest asyncio !6247
- DEPS: Upgrade AMQP-CPP package to 4.3.16 !6343
- DEPS: Update numpy dependency on karabo-cpp Conda env to 1.22.3 (from 1.13.3). !6469
- DEPS: Update amqp-cpp to version 4.3.16 in the karabo-cpp Conda env. !6344
- TOOLS: make the location of the binaries configurable !6479
- TOOLS: Enable conditional installation !6217
- CMake: Fix typo in prepare vs code cmake !6555
- CMake: Remove CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH check
- CMake: Add hint to setupVSCodeCMake.py !6229
- CMake: Script to set up VSCode CMake builds just like auto_build_all.sh. !6129
- Deployment: Fix service in names by removing trailing newline and account webserver for that !6352
- karabo-cpp: Fix for numpy version inconsistency in "meta_base.yaml". !6561
- karabo-cpp dependency building: fix silent failures, "numJobs" for cmake-based builds. !6563
- karabo-cpp: Sync template with the latest changes in Beckhoff's CMake project. !6537


Core Devices
=============

- DaemonManager: Fix post action and use of new table filter features !6357
- DaemonManager: Implement TableBoolButton Interface !6221
- DaemonManager: Performance optimization in cycling !6444
- DaemonManager: Add Restart to DaemonManager !6372
- DaemonManager: Erase information on UNKNOWN state and cleanup !6441
- WebAggregator: Implement heartbeat checking and remove servers if hosts vanish !6442
- FW: Change visiblity of property test devices to EXPERT !6436
- GuiServer: Fix a debug message in GuiServerDevice !6490
- GuiServer: Small GuiServer improvements !6380
- GuiServer: Gui server keeps registered pipelines !6370
- GuiServer: Increase minimum client version to 2.11.3 !6295
- GuiServer: More pipeline info in GuiServer debug dump !6347
- GuiServer: Print meta data received from client !6541
- GuiServer: GuiServerDevice synchronisation fix !6353
- DataLogger: Log when data logging is blocked !6423
- Datalogger: No logging re-enforcement if not needed !6235
- Datalogger: Allow to ignore archiving some deviceIds/classIds. !6410
- Datalogger: Influx logging: add 'logger_time' metric to events of type '+LOG' and '-LOG'. !6363
- Datalogger: Reject device log entries while above a logging rate threshold. !6283
- Datalogger: Don't skip forceDeviceToBeLogged when the logger is behind the device update time. !6426
- Influx: Add support for max schema logging rate for a device. !6405
- Influx: Add "digest_start" and "schema_size" to "*__SCHEMAS" measurements !6399
- Influx: Fix for ever-growing schema's m_archive of a device being logged.


Tests and CI
============

- CI: conda build to run remote script !6392
- CI: Flake naming test !6481
- CI: Better Python CI !6462
- CI: Add code quality check for submodule imports !6397
- CI: Provide a property naming tests in templates !6465
- CI: improve integration tests compilation times !6388
- TEST: remove C++ runner code duplication !6219
- TEST: Add timeout to MDL template test !6550
- TEST: Align initial MDL template to isort !6299
- C++ tests: Fetch Schema until the buffer is done; test for fixes in !6470 and !6478. !6478
- C++ tests: More robust pipeline integration test !6379
- C++ tests: Increase broker timeouts !6360
- C++ tests: Reliable BaseLogger_Test !6362
- C++ tests: Increase timeout in InputOutputChannel_Test !6356
- C++ tests: Safer TcpAdapter with extended login(..) method. !6559
- C++ Tests: increase timeouts !6358
- Fix BoundPy integration tests. !6298
- Bound Integration Tests: Increase timeout !6240
- Fix minimal template for new Cpp devices. !6385
- C++ Template: cmake return on compilation failures. !6433


Graphical User Interface
========================

- GUI: avoid macro server confusion !6365
- GUI: Skip topology instances without attributes
- GUI: Show a log message instead of a message box for missing schema !6578
- GUI: Fix text for CrosshairRoi item !6576
- GUI: Expose current roi from controller !6570
- GUI: Make sure fonts are considered correctly on scene view for spinboxes !6565
- GUI: Expose CodeBook in karabogui.api !6567
- GUI: Add a table string button to the framework !6516
- GUI: Implement controller panels !6547
- GUI: Protect spinboxes with an own stylesheet !6562
- GUI: Provide configurable navigation and project alarms and info login !6557
- GUI: Increase table display performance once more !6558
- GUI: Protect vector hash binding when no schema is specified !6531
- GUI: Improve user experience in configurator selection
- GUI: Add test for moving scene items without snap to grid !6552
- GUI: Test binding clear namespace and make it faster !6530
- GUI: Add Historic Text Widget for String retrieval !6493
- GUI: Enhance app config dialog with header double click action and put a description !6548
- GUI: Unify and cleanup size hint constants !6546
- GUI: Remove model index bookkeeping in configurator for performance increase !6529
- GUI: Fix table setting via Configurator !6519
- GUI: Another performance update configurator !6525
- GUI: Make the application configuration editable for booleans !6523
- GUI: Fix project device rename !6538
- GUI: No alarm for project models, but conflicts !6521
- GUI: Don't request new schemas when moving scene element to back or foreground !6527
- GUI: Simplify table button delegate !6526
- Revert "GUI: Remove value delegate from Configurator" !6532
- GUI: Deprecate and Remove AnalogWidget !6486
- GUI: Remove value delegate from Configurator !6517
- GUI: Performance increase schema update configurator !6528
- GUI: StepMode true is deprecated in pyqtgraph, use center !6497
- GUI: Make schema building a lot faster !6524
- GUI: Add fonts to the command controller !6513
- GUI: Provide lazy Configurator filtering !6520
- GUI: Fix announce of value update in Configurator !6518
- GUI:  SizeHints for spinboxes and use in controllers !6515
- GUI: Show a warning message instead of a popup for missing scene in project !6499
- GUI: Add formatting to float spinbox !6509
- GUI: Deprecate Iconset widget !6485
- GUI: Add formatting to intspinbox !6506
- GUI: Performance lineedit unitlabels and code quality !6507
- GUI: A few fixes for the spinbox !6505
- GUI: A few fixes for the double spinbox !6504
- GUI: Enable to get default scene of device from scene elements !6502
- GUI: Increase display performance of table controllers !6501
- GUI: Cleanup get_device_status_pixmap !6500
- GUI: Drop Weakmethod ref since in common !6498
- GUI: Move test schema code to testing !6482
- GUI: Speed up bytescale !6496
- GUI: Image alignment lookup table and code quality !6495
- GUI: Add optional sorting feature to table widget !6489
- GUI: Image levels protection in levels dialog !6474
- GUI: Remove directory and filesystem widgets !6463
- GUI: ColorBar and Image protection for infinite values !6446
- GUI: Performance boost for image clipping !6468
- GUI: Provide testing module !6464
- GUI: Tune icons dialog with data directory and more !6454
- GUI: AlarmPanel - Add instanceId filtering and remove Id from the view !6443
- GUI: Offer confirmation option for table button and use in daemon manager !6440
- GUI: Prevent admin devices from creation !6435
- GUI: Add model sortingEnabled for filter controllers protection !6393
- GUI: Add log level filtering to log widget !6404
- GUI: Move frameslider ui file !6421
- GUI: Always synchronize online schema for devices !6413
- GUI: Fix the pipeline counter for schema evolution !6412
- GUI: Rename types to binding types !6417
- GUI: Cleanup icon command widget !6415
- GUI: Add resize contents on initialize in log widget and continue cleaning up !6402
- GUI: Refactor log server dialog !6401
- GUI: Rename label text to Clear Filter for filter controller !6394
- GUI: Align access level change on tables with buttons !6366
- GUI: Add sortingEnabled option to table filter controller !6359
- GUI: Have a single paint event for the log widget !6361
- GUI: Rework logging widget for performance and filtering !6345
- GUI: Don't show another image on image controller double click !6300
- GUI: Only show unit label on eval widget when required !6307
- GUI: Unit util for abs errors and type checks !6328
- GUI: Show unit label only when needed in LabelWidget !6305
- GUI: Add subtests module !6271
- GUI: Ensure future high dpi compatibility !6302
- GUI: Slight refactor to RangeSlider !6312
- GUI: Provide display type formatting for labels !6318
- GUI: Show a log message for missing scenes on project scene handling and cleanup !6327
- GUI: Fix image profiling when weighted with zeros !6303
- GUI: Protect range slider from handle movement to a threshold !6277
- GUI: Protect against schema evolution on the command controller !6272
- GUI: Substitute font only if available and rewrite base to pathlib !6301
- GUI: Create conftest for pytest !6265
- GUI: Prevent viewbox exceptions in profiling !6291
- GUI: Protect levels dialog from segfaulting, slider protection !6273
- GUI: Ensure class schema for project devices when shown in configurator !6269
- GUI: Remove class schemas on server leave !6268
- GUI: Use pytest-mock in sticker dialog test !6263
- GUI: Provide possibility to move to pytest easily !6255
- GUI: Add pytest-mock to recipes !6262
- GUI: Fix the log message of bad disconnect !6251
- GUI: Move by 1px if snap_to_grid is false
- GUI: Indent/De-indent code in Macro Editor using Tab/Shift+Tab key(s).
- GUI: Macro Editor - Fix Syntax highlight issue !6566
- GUI: Toggling match case button should just highlights hits. !6554
- GUI: Create a widget for Macro editor.
- GUI: Find Toolbar for Macro editor.
- GUI: IconWidget for String Properties !6471
- GUI: Improve 'Change Icon' Dialog appearance. !6445



Examples (MDL - Broker Shortcut)
================================

.. code-block:: python

    class Motor(Device):
        """This is a motor that has shared access to a controller talking
        to hardware"""

        controllerId = String()
        channelId = Int32(defaultValue=1)

        async def onInitialization(self):

            await waitUntil(lambda: self.getLocalDevice(self.controllerId.value)
                             is not None)
            # Strong reference to the controller device
            controller = self.getLocalDevice(self.controllerId.value)
            # Call a function directly on the device object
            values = await controller.read_hardware_values(self.channelId)