***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.16.5
***************************

This patch release fixes the `Windows` installation of the karaboGui and
aligns the key strokes on `Scenes` to avoid that they coincide with the Ubuntu workspace swapping.
Another mandatory fix for the data loggers is provided. Since the new influx database cluster disconnects after
two seconds of idle connection, most schema updates (including the initial schema) were erroneously discarded.
A minor fix to enable starting bound devices on middlelayer servers is provided as well.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- Datalogger: Better message for no schema found while getting past config (2.16.X Cherry Pick) !7224
- GUI: Move editor to double click and not device scene (Cherry-pick hotfix 2.16.X) !7274
- GUI: Icons Widget-TextDialog: Show items in a Combobox (Cherry-pick hotfix 2.16.X) !7278
- GUI: Cleanup double click event in scene view (Cherry-pick) !7280
- GUI: Align the python version on the hotfix branch (Cherry-pick hotfix 2.16.X) !7303
- GUI: Update qtpy on hotfix branch 2.16.X !7323
- C++: Fix influx schema writing if disconnected (BACKPORT to 2.16.X) !7327
- MDL: Add slotDeviceUp to bound server (Cherry-pick hotfix) !7277


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.16.4
***************************

This patch release provides the first **Ubuntu 22** support. Furthermore, it fixes
a bug in the data logging machinery that occurred after the influx database was upgraded.
Besides, minor improvements in the graphical user interface are provided.

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- MDL: Add timestamp to messages from openmqc (backport 2.16.X) !7181
- C++: Fix a bug in the parsing of HTTP headers by the InfluxDbClient and add a test (2.16.X hotfix). !7198
- GUI: Fix slice for RGB images (Cherry-pick hotfix 2.16.X) !7197
- GUI: Provide full information on changes of configuration in dialog (Cherry-pick hotfix 2.16.X) !7201
- GUI: Target tool show log values. (Cherry-pick 2.16.X) !7214
- DEP: Update openmqc to version 5.1.4.1 (fix for compilation on GCC 11.3). (Cherry-pick hotfix 2.16.X) !7206


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.16.3
***************************

This patch release mainly improves the middlelayer api by allowing `noDefaultValue` (NoneValue) on properties
that have an `Assignment.INTERNAL` declaration.
A minor fix is provided for the bound api on requesting the latest logs of a device server.
If no devices have been running on the server, the slot call did not return previously.


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- Bound: fix slotLoggerContent if server has no devices (backport to 2.16.X) !7047
- MDL: AsyncDeviceTest and Eventloop with SignalSlotable, adjust template (cherrypick 2.16.3) !7059
- DOC: Remove 'gitlab' from urls, update supported platforms and device templates (backport to 2.16.3) !7057
- GUI: Change copyright notice for about dialog (cherry-pick 2.16.3) !7088
- MDL: Allow Assignment.INTERNAL descriptors to have no default value (Cherry-pick 2.16.X) !7127
- MDL: Skip AMQP tests for 2.16.X !7129


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.16.2
***************************

This patch release:

* fixes a long standing issue where the GUI server missed elements of the system topology
* fixes the inability of the GUI client to open some scenes manipulated with SVG editors.

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- C++: Fix initial topology gathering of the GuiServer
- GUI: Fix pathparser transport to Python 3.8


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.16.1
***************************

This patch release:

* fixes a datalogger connection issue found in a lab installation,
* offers performance improvements for output channels in a C++ device for
  the case that input channels connect with onSlowness="queueDrop" (see
  documentation of new *safeNDArray* flag in Device::writeChannel and
  OutputChannel::update),
* hardens the Middlelayer API in tests,
* changes the behavior of MDL's *sanitize_write_configuration*. Now the properties declared
  as Assignment.INTERNAL in the runtime schema are included in the configuration, before they
  were filtered out,
* provides a convenient `AsyncTimer` handling (stop of timer at end of device lifetime),
* and includes some validation and future proofing improvements in the GUI
  client.

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

- GUI: Prevent VectorBool to be considered for TableVectorButton
- GUI: Provide option to retrieve default scene on TableStringButton
- GUI: Add validator again to list regex edit
- GUI: Provide toolbar in Configuration Editor when in cinema mode
- GUI: Remove not required column in project view
- GUI: Put index ref protection in filter model
- GUI: Improve image node validation
- GUI: Memorize project sorting in dialog
- C++/Bound: Add flag to avoid NDArray data copy even if pipeline queues
- C++: Allow Device::writeChannel to specify safeNDArray for OutputChannel::update
- C++: Add deviceId to exception message of Device::get
- C++: Fixed data logger connection failure handling
- MDL: Protect NoEventLoop from launching tasks when beingoing down
- MDL: Assignment.INTERNAL in sanitize_write_configuration
- MDL: Don't start the AsyncTimer again when the loop is closed, provide success...
- MDL: Rely on instanceGone to remove Child of server
- MDL: Provide convenient async timer handling. They are always stopped and destroyed.


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.16.0
***************************

This section shows the new features in Karabo 2.16.0, compared to 2.15.0.
The use of this version of the GUI is encouraged without the need of upgrading the Karabo Servers.
This release is **backwards compatible** until version **2.11**.

Summary – Release highlights
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- GUI Dependency upgrade:

  - Upgrade of Python to 3.8
  - PyQt5 to 5.15.
  - PyQtGraph to 0.13.1

- GUI: Most controllers that can add multiple properties support removal of properties
- Preparing GUI Server for user authentication
- Improve the Pipeline reconnection performance

  - MDL: InputChannels provide information about their missing connections
  - MDL: Always try to reconnect pipeline channel even if the remote channel does not exist yet (schema injection)

Features
++++++++

- GUI: Editable controllers can have multiple properties. This enables future controllers in extensions, e.g. schema
  independent validation of values.
- GUI/MDL: Macros know the name of the project they belong to
- GUI: Table elements have key strokes:

    - CTRL + N: New row
    - DEL: Remove row
    - SHIFT + UP: Move row up
    - SHIFT + DOWN: Move row down

- GUI: Row in reconfigurable table elements can be moved with mouse dragging
- GUI: Table elements support the display type ``TableVectorButton`` for vector properties to provide a dialog for editing
- GUI: Rework of the ListEdit dialog for vector properties. Now elements can be edited with double click, new elements can be added
  with CTRL + N, etc.
- GUI: Historic Data can now also be retrieved for vector of strings
- GUI: Popup the mainwindow or Configuration Editor with **CTRL + ALT** key stroke on scene.
- GUI: Provide information about `archivePolicy`` and `assignment` in the Configurator Popup
- GUI: Toggling of auto range now auto focuses and selects the minimum value in the range dialogs for plot and Lut for images.
- GUI: Addition of `BaseLineEditController` class that can be reused by **guiextensions**
- GUI: Image Widgets can be **undocked**. The underlying model information is copied and a resizable controller is launched
- GUI: Configurator shows now the Health Status `UNKNOWN` for the properties.
- GUI: Health status `UNKNOWN` implemented in the project view.
- GUI: Filtering in device capability dialog
- GUI: Hovering over a project item will show the last date when the item was stored (UTC time)
- GUI: Reactive gui client login that can be activated via the client application dialog.
- GUI: Initial table element display performance increased by a factor of 2.
- MDL: Addition of `AsyncTimer` class as utility feature for postponing or repeating tasks
- MDL: Addition of `PipelineContext` feature to subscribe to pipeline data in a context. More information in **HowToMiddlelayer**

Bugfixes
++++++++

- GUI: Display widget for vectors will elide their text if the text exceeds the widget width
- GUI: Target tool (inspector) of the plot widget now handles timestamps and states properly
- GUI: Font size fixes for **MacOS** in the font editing of widgets
- GUI: All editable controllers have been fixed for **MacOS**, so that they can apply values with **Enter** key stroke.
- MDL: Clients (e.g. ikarabo) will always send their slotInstanceGone
- MDL: Only the top-level macros are instantiated. Addresses a Macro bug for macros using inheritance
- Solved a Datalogger issue for data containing NaNs and Infinities

Breaking Changes
++++++++++++++++

None

Change of behaviour
+++++++++++++++++++

- The DaemonManager has a different appearence showcasing the `displayType` extension
  for table elements.
- GUI: The Client uses a generic protocol for the ProjectManager and requires a GUI Server device with version **2.13.X**
- GUI: The table drag & drop feature from the project or navigation panel has been removed. Use a dialog via right click on the table cell to enter a deviceId.
- GUI: If a property without default value specified `options`, the client was previously adding the first option as default value. This has been removed and
  the client treats no default value correctly!
- GUI: External SVG Elements on the scene cannot anymore selected.
- GUI: The enum `MouseMode` has been renamed to `MouseTool` to not collide with the external dependency **pyqtgraph**. Backward compatibility is available
  for guiextensions, but will be deprecated in the next release.
- MDL: The InputChannel property `connectedOutputChannels` changed the access mode from `RECONFIGURABLE` to `INITONLY` to align with the C++/Bound counterpart.

Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++

Bound/cpp core
==============

- C++: Configuration options for Strand class. !6622
- C++: Strand construction via Configurator. !6624
- C++: Reliable InputChannel::connect handler. !6658
- C++: extend test of Hash::getDeepPaths for key empty Hash. !6717
- C++/Bound: ImageDataElement::setDimensions with vector argument. !6719
- C++/Bound: relax requirement on data throughput. !6808
- C++: subscribe channel readHandler early. !6777
- C++: Fix the sampling instead of averaging bug found in the slotGetPropertyHistory of InfluxLogReader. !6805
- C++: Add NDArray::shape(vector<ull>(..)) besides shape(string). !6880
- Bound: Do not spam log with warnings for caught exceptions. !6586
- Bound: Publish written and read bytes for output channels. !6655
- Bound: fix integration test failure. !6689
- Bound integration test: Follow-up. !6703

Core Devices
============

- PropertyTest::slotUpdateSchema recreates its output channel. !6807
- GUI Auth: Add "loginInformation" message with token validation results. !6751
- GUI Server: Remove "userId" from final message sent to GUI client after one-time token validation. !6767
- GUI Server: More robust device monitoring in GuiServerDevice. !6591
- GUI Server: Bind "userId" and "oneTimeToken" to the channel data structure. !6788
- GUI Server: Protect against loosing device schema in GuiServer. !6908
- GUI Server: Add integration tests for GUI Server one-time token validation. !6769
- GUI Server: Fix class schema forward loophole in GuiServer. !6894
- GUI Server: Fix that empty slot name was ignored. !6911
- GUI Server: Protect against loosing device schema in GuiServer. !6908
- GUI Server: Allow user connected to a read-only GUI Server to load a project. !6885
- DataLogReader: Better message when no schema is found during GetConfigurationFromPast. !6891
- DataLogReader: Fix the sampling instead of averaging bug found in the slotGetPropertyHistory of InfluxLogReader. !6805

MDL/Native core
===============

- MDL: More formally correct slotGetTime hash filling. !6587
- MDL: added overwritable parameter to saveConfigurationFromName. !6575
- MDL: Fix proxy reconnect on CLI. !6607
- MDL: Protect onDestruction with a timeout error. !6588
- MDL: Deregister device quickly on slotKillDevice. !6581
- MDL: Amqp broker connection failover. !6656
- MDL: log if device is being shutdown. !6713
- MDL: Provide an async timer that can snooze. !6729
- MDL: fix typo in shutdown message. !6760
- MDL: Fix re/connection to pipeline with injected output channel and protect handlers with a timeout. !6759
- MDL: Always log exception when in onInitialization. Exception after init is still succesful instantiation. !6753
- MDL: More simple infinite input channel connection. Avoid infinite stack traces. !6762
- MDL: Enhance server testing, util extension. !6764
- MDL: Improve instantiation of devices in device server. Reply error if already starting. !6772
- MDL: Pipeline context for sync and async case. !6790
- MDL: Set not alive in the cycling of output channels. !6796
- MDL: Allow archivePolicy to have an effect again. !6797
- MDL: Increase code quality by including tests and renaming jsonencoder. !6802
- MDL: Provide more robustness in output closure. !6801
- MDL: PipelineMetaData can be viewed with repr. !6800
- MDL: Better pipeline proxy handling with attaching handlers. !6803
- MDL: 'Synchronize' printHistory. !6809
- MDL: Minor adjustments to output closure. !6804
- MDL: Meta macros only instantiate the top level class and cleanup. !6768
- MDL: Cleanup requestAction from DaemonManager. !6831
- MDL: Ignore list in template. !6843
- MDL: Use single connection to AMQP broker. !6795
- MDL: Fix initial defaultValue for connected output channel and align. !6872
- MDL: Fix device instantiation error message. !6886
- MDL: Alive and server boolean for serving. Be verbose on accepting sockets. !6864
- MDL: Input Channels provide information about their missing connections. !6868
- MDL: Catch CancelledError in heartbeat task. !6900
- MDL: Macros have their project name as variables and store code. !6874
- MDL: Another graceful ikarabo shutdown attempt. !6898
- MDL: Cancel channel and close writers when not alive. !6896
- MDL: Call slotKillDevice directly. !6909
- Native: Change Weak that it can always provide a value, e.g. None. !6579
- Native: Add test for get_array_data with exception. !6595
- Common: Rename to InstanceStatus. !6647
- Add max_clients named parameter to InfluxDbClient init. !6741
- Remove max_clients param from InfluxDbClient init. !6745
- Native: Default row on TableValue provides a safe deepcopy. !6818
- Native: Provide iter_hashes for TableValue. !6819
- MDL Integration Test: Sleep until data arrives. !6832
- Common: Cleanup the package namings. !6844
- Graceful device client shutdown in ikarabo. !6845
- scene2py: replace deviceId correctly. !6889
- Common: Added constant and BaseEditWidget to api namespace. !6899
- Allow Karabo CLI to handle device packages outside of karaboDevices/. !6852
- ConfigDB: More flexible Configuration Sets support in the ConfigurationDatabase.. !5526
- ConfigDB: Fix unit testFix method DbHandle. !6661

Graphical User Interface
========================

- GUI: Remove additional proxies enabled for command widget. !6585
- GUI: Enable to remove additional proxies from trendline. !6594
- GUI: Allow to remove additional proxies for vector graph. !6604
- GUI: Fix daemon controller brush casting. !6598
- GUI: Move some internal variables before assigning the model. !6597
- GUI: Change gui client protocol for project manager. !6341
- GUI: Macro Editor - option to change font size. !6596
- GUI: Make qversion check properly done. !6608
- GUI: Syntax highlighter for Macro editor. !6590
- GUI: Offer undock of ImageGraph for resizing. !6583
- GUI: Keep the tooltip of the ControllerContainer in sync. !6606
- GUI: ControllerPanel shows offline status. !6617
- GUI: Target tool shows user friendly value for time, alarm and state axis. !6613
- GUI: Update Python to 3.8. !6611
- GUI: Update PyQt to 5.15. !6113
- GUI: Update numpy and scipy. !6618
- GUI: Set parent on error message box in proxies dialog. !6620
- GUI: Align variables of translate snap and scale snap with upstream pyqtgraph. !6627
- GUI: Set focus policy on combobox.. !6629
- GUI: Sticker Widget - Make font size in sync.. !6615
- GUI: Put option to request schema and configuration in retrieve default scene. !6631
- GUI: Make sure editable controllers have strong focus. !6634
- GUI: Remove segfault on mainwindow closing. !6628
- GUI: Fix segfault in theatre timeout. !6630
- GUI: Use tango icons for zoom in and out. !6640
- GUI: Remove project model index bookkeeping. !6638
- GUI: Increase project db timeout to 30 seconds for saving and loading. !6637
- GUI: Performance improvements in db connection handler handling. !6639
- GUI: Cast cell values of tables to their type. !6636
- GUI: Alarm model peformance update. !6641
- GUI: Edit Text dialog- Font button size should remain same. !6644
- GUI: Split off the device status from the proxy status. !6643
- GUI: More performance in attributes lookups and DeviceStatus in device topology. !6645
- GUI: Cleanup topology and remove not required checks. !6648
- GUI: Finally move ProxyStatus to the GUI and cleanup. !6646
- GUI: compatibility numpy float. !6649
- GUI: Optimize trait event project device. !6651
- GUI: Fix classId changes between project devices. !6650
- GUI: Fix conflict management of classId's of online devices. !6653
- GUI: more optimization of trait handlers in project device. !6652
- GUI: Minor cleanup device topology. !6654
- GUI: Call updateMatrix on resizing plot.. !6665
- GUI: After init set current index of Combobox to -1. !6670
- GUI: Absolute import in cinema.py and theatre.py. !6675
- GUI: Fix editable combobox for false values. !6676
- GUI Client: Login dialog with user authentication. !6674
- GUI: Close popup in index changes in the configurator view. !6679
- GUI: Add row handling buttons. !6671
- GUI: Close configurator popup on assigning new proxies. !6681
- GUI: Deprecate and remove display combobox from controllers. !6684
- GUI: Clean and refactor toolbar for table. !6680
- GUI: Deprecate and remove bitfield widget. !6690
- GUI: Cleanup multicurve graph and account no binding at start. !6691
- GUI: Move back high dpi settings. !6697
- GUI: Multi-Curve Graph should have the default configuration. !6701
- GUI: Keep popup after schema injection. !6695
- GUI: Immediately delete layout items when they are taken. !6696
- GUI: Fix stacked widget layout of icons dialog. !6693
- GUI: Account device provided scenes in deprecation of combobox model. !6704
- GUI: Fix broken relationship between list controllers and their display... !6705
- GUI: Change copyright year. !6708
- GUI: Only silently erase edit value on succesful reply from gui server. !6699
- GUI: Specification file to create Karabogui executable. !6692
- GUI: Another popup precaution for the configurator. !6710
- GUI: Provide a getTopology wrapper for the api. !6714
- GUI: Deprecate and delete PopUp widget. !6720
- GUI: Add a padding to controller panels. !6715
- GUI: Correct Window Flag for the popup. !6718
- GUI: Increase layout performance in treeviews. !6723
- GUI: Protect historic widget from no value. !6725
- GUI: Move VectorFillGraph on pyqtgraph builtin. !6726
- GUI: Raise MainWindow or create Editor on key stroke on scene. !6712
- GUI: Deprecate and remove display controller for choice of nodes. !6724
- GUI: Adjust size policy of labels in horizontal direction. !6698
- GUI: Move model assignment late in filter model. !6738
- GUI: Add Configurator UNKNOWN alpha color. !6737
- GUI: Remove quite a few deprecation warnings for implicit type castings. !6739
- GUI: Remove boolean option from scatter. !6735
- GUI: Allow filtering in capability dialog. !6732
- GUI: Calculate elided text after setting geometry. !6743
- Revert "GUI: Adjust size policy of labels in horizontal direction". !6744
- GUI: Remove gui app from configurator utils test. !6746
- GUI: Remove Qt5 import from time dialog. !6747
- GUI: Prevent forbidden ui library imports and rewrite mainwindow test. !6748
- GUI: Better None protection for image levels dialog. !6750
- GUI: Topology Hash convenience fix. !6749
- GUI: Align and check window title of axes dialog. !6752
- GUI: Allow historic widget to be saved and loaded on scene. !6756
- GUI: Allow multiple proxies for editable controllers. !6734
- GUI: Enhance the configurator model, fix the flags for no items. !6770
- GUI: Fix tooltips of navigation panel search. !6771
- GUI: Offer to undock webcam graph. !6766
- GUI: Refactor handle login info and provide test. !6774
- GUI: Remove classId check in device topology and check for attrs. !6775
- GUI: Offer possibility to include request in call_device_slot. !6776
- GUI: Configurator Protection for races. !6778
- GUI: Update sceneview after moving/resizing items via context menu. !6785
- GUI: Enable to remove proxy from scatter graph. !6791
- GUI: Clean link widgets and provide a base class. !6789
- GUI: Add device dialog to enter deviceId in table. !6792
- GUI: Provide the filter model in the karabogui api. !6798
- GUI: Enable to remove proxy from vector scatter. !6793
- GUI: Fix default configuration options on project device bindings. !6799
- GUI: Cleanup unsupported widget. !6810
- GUI: Optimize table model flags. !6814
- GUI: Only provide Set Cell Value in table for reconfigurable binding. !6813
- GUI: Fix binding writable in table utils. !6816
- GUI: Remove proxies from MultiCurve Graph.https://redmine.xfel.eu/issues/136380
- GUI: Protect an exception in the table dialog in the Configurator. !6821
- GUI: Adjust focus policy on table element. !6815
- GUI: Remove numpy clip patch. !6823
- GUI: Update scipy to 1.9.X and numpy to 1.23.X. !6824
- GUI: Change the priority of display vector graph. !6827
- GUI: Set strong focus on runconfigurator widget. !6829
- GUI: Cleanup lineedit super calls and remove not required update_label call. !6828
- GUI: Provide elided label for list widgets. !6826
- GUI: Provide more options for mouse modes to click on the image. !6830
- GUI: Rewrite LineEdit controllers for stylesheet and cleanup tests. !6836
- GUI: Add more graph enums to karabogui.api. !6834
- GUI: Expose basic menu for subclassing table controllers. !6825
- GUI: Fix Icon Widget size. !6835
- GUI: Historic vectors of strings. !6811
- GUI: Provide convenient way to set custom delegates in the table element. !6840
- GUI: Create BaseLineEditController and expose via api. !6837
- GUI: Abstract more the BaseLineEdit interface. !6848
- GUI: Further test validators and code quality. !6851
- GUI: Cleanup further the lineedit controller. !6849
- GUI: Fix icon scene defaults. !6850
- GUI: Add Configurator Item Types and expose all item types via api. !6847
- GUI: Add column index and column key methods to table controller. !6846
- GUI: Align validators to karabo attribute naming and formatting. !6854
- GUI: Provide convenience binding checks for vector integer bindings. !6856
- GUI: Align MouseMode with pyqtgraph. !6855
- GUI: Enable friendly levels dialog tabbing with auto select and focus. !6859
- GUI: Increase initial table performance and by creating a new row by a factor of 2. !6853
- GUI: Align the karabogui api, add DeviceProxy, widget hints, Events, ... !6858
- GUI: Delete devices when deleting a server in the project. !6860
- GUI: Refactor project device controller test. !6863
- GUI: Protect Slider with further integer conversion from segfaulting. !6839
- GUI: Fix selection model handling of UnknownSVG's. !6865
- GUI: Enable keyEvents for the table elements. !6861
- GUI: Enable table drag and drop. !6862
- GUI: Add a few tooltips to scene widgets. !6873
- GUI: Solve the MacOS case for table keys. !6871
- GUI: Activate quick table copy. !6869
- GUI: Cleanup icons dialogs and account integer minimum and maximum. !6838
- GUI: Refactor reactive login dialog. !6878
- GUI: Refactor base project controller test. !6867
- GUI: Refactor macro controller test. !6866
- GUI: Only allow topology device for bindings without options in table. !6857
- GUI: Refactor list edit dialog. !6881
- GUI: Fix and test table view dialog toolbar. !6882
- GUI: Macros know their project they are started in. !6875
- GUI: Retrieve default scene for requested devices. !6877
- GUI: Set a QSizePolicy for the Iconlabel. !6888
- GUI: Add a vector delegate to edit tables with a dialog. !6884
- GUI: Improvement to the List Edit Dialog. !6890
- GUI: Activate validator for port and always abort connection if not connected. !6895
- GUI: Provide helper tool to check for project instance duplicates. !6892
- GUI: Abstract more the BaselineEditController. !6901
- GUI: Add a logger notification possibility for the gui server. !6902
- GUI: Add Assignment and ArchivePolicy information to the info popup of the configurator. !6893
- GUI: Enhance PlotRange dialog with focus. !6905
- GUI: Show the last date when item was saved in project. !6906
- GUI: Adjustments for public interface of table controller. !6907
- GUI: Make yellow a strong yellow in graph widgets. !6912
- GUI: Remove alarms from panels. !6870
- GUI: Set MacroSlot as the default slot in macros. !6916
- GUI: Remove duplicate qtpy in meta data. !6914
- GUI: Provide getInstanceId in controllers. !6915
- GUI: Time Field Widget: Change font size/weight. !6833
- GUI: Add spinboxes and doublespinboxes and booleans and text log to data model 2. !6755
- GUI: use absolute imports in update_dialog. !6782
- GUI: Login dialog that reacts to server sent info. !6780
- GUI: Fix for argument of invalid type, 'str', passed to connect setEnabled. !6887

Dependencies, Documentation and Tools
=====================================

- DOC: ChangeLog 2.15.X. !6599
- DOC: Second Round: Whats New. !6600
- DOC: Document 2.14.2. !6602
- DOC: Document 2.13 releases. !6603
- DEPS: Update python and jupyter libraries. !6476
- DOC: Document broker shortcut possibility of MDL. !6605
- TOOLS: fix build system for windows. !6619
- TOOLS: remove PYTHONBUFFERED setting. !6626
- TOOLS: allow multiple service directory templates. !6625
- DOC: Documentation and tests for conversions on Hash node values get methods.. !6623
- TEST: python tests without listing all modules. !6199
- Device templates: State template origin. !6642
- Add root CMakeLists.txt for IDEs that require it. !6156
- DOC: document versions 2.15.1 and 2.15.2. !6657
- TOOLS: make a local jms installation. !6660
- TOOLS: Move "lint_modified.sh" (and "pre-commit") to proper directory. !6672
- TOOLS: protect scripts from missing service dir. !6673
- TOOLS: better support for cmake PkgConfig. !6503
- DEPS: Add boost.beast 1.79 as an external dependency for the Framework. !6677
- Brokerrates: Improve printed info. !6664
- DEPS: Update PyQt to 5.15.7. !6700
- DEPS: Fix dependency on Boost.Beast 1.79. !6694
- DEPS: Remove beast-boost 1.79 dependency. !6709
- DOC: document 2.15.3. !6730
- DOC: 2.15 followup. !6731
- DOC: document 2.15.4. !6779
- DOC: correct outdated getHistory syntax. !6822
- TOOLS: catch karabo-start failures. !6721
- TESTS: Expand mdl test results. !6716
- TOOLS: catch karabo-start failures. !6721
- DEPS: Add C++14 fork of Belle as a dependency. !6727
- Bound test: Re-write test of exception in initialisation. !6728
- DOC: document 2.15.3. !6730
- DOC: 2.15 followup. !6731
- Include GUI Extensions in the bundle. !6733
- SceneModel: Compatibility IntSpinbox. !6754
- Device Templates: use nproc to determine -jN switch to make. !6740
- DOC: document 2.15.4. !6779
- CMake: Fix for missing "karabodependencies.pc" for devices with Netbeans based builds. !6783
- BUILD: handle multiple pc files in extract script. !6784
- Modules to exclude from bundle. !6794
- Update PyQtGraph to 0.13.1. !6812
- DOC: correct outdated getHistory syntax. !6822
- Add google style hint to python development. !6817
- Activate code quality test again in interactive. !6897
- Revert "DEPS: Update python and jupyter libraries". !6904
- C++: Document SignalSlotable::reply(..) and DeviceClient constructors. !6742
- C++: Fix some doc strings. !6879
