***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.17.0
***************************

Preliminary! Release scheduled for the 19.05.2023. Merge-log until 2.17.0a8.


Summary – Release highlights
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- **Add support to AlmaLinux 9.** !7256
- MDL: New `Configurable` coroutine function `set_setter(h, only_changes=False)` provided. This is the analogon to `Configurable.set`, but calling
  the internal `setter` functions for the descriptors.
- ALL API: A new slot `slotGetConfigurationSlice` is available that provides the configuration of selected paths.
- ALL API: The device property `lastCommand` will now also show the `senderId`, e.g.  "calledSlot <- DEVICE/THAT/CALLED"
- MDL: `slotGetProperties` function provided that calls `slotGetConfigurationSlice`. The function takes a list of paths or a single path as input.
- GUI: A new code editor with linting based on QScintilla is provided
- Ubuntu 22 Support: Backported to 2.16.4

Features
++++++++

- `InstanceStatus` Widget can be added to the scene

Bugfixes
++++++++

- C++: Fixed data logger connection failure handling (Cherrypicked in 2.16.1)

Breaking Changes
++++++++++++++++

- Drop Ubuntu18 support from CI

Change of behaviour
+++++++++++++++++++

- **Change default broker address to AMQP**
- GUI: By default the property alarm color for devices in the `Configurator` is now disabled. This is intended as the
  `Configurator` can only evaluate static alarms defined by the device schema. To view property specific alarms, please use the alarm panel.
  To turn this feature back on, please use the *Application Configuration dialog** accessible via the menu bar of the client.
- GUI: Device scene links cannot be created from the device property `availableScenes` anymore. They become a scene tool widget and
  have to be created from the scene panel toolbar or via dragging a device onto a scene.
  Device scene links don't trigger itself monitoring of a device.
- ALL API: Log-events do not generate a broker message anymore. For logging messages, please retrieve the last log messages on demand via the karabo gui client
  interface or view the local log file.
- MDL: Provide set_setter on Configurable
- GUI Server: Remove 'requestFromSlot' and update integration tests.
- C++: Add deviceId to exception message of Device::get


Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++


Graphical User Interface
========================


- GUI: Icons Widget-TextDialog. Show items in a Combobox. !7275
- GUI: Enable hovering over selected widgets !7179
- GUI: Target tool show log values. !7167
- Revert "GUI: Enable to build scenes with offline devices" !7190
- GUI: Change Target Tool Legend color. !7191
- GUI: Cleanup the code from axis item !7199
- GUI: Change font size/weight for List widget. Closes #136 !7194
- GUI: Provide full information on changes of configuration in dialog !7188
- GUI: Clean up time label test !7200
- GUI: Disable dynamic sorting on Topology Tree.Closes #152 !7211
- GUI: Set the dynamicSortFilter to False in Configurator and test the swap model !7182
- GUI: Handle slash in the file name on saving Macro.Closes #146 !7208
- GUI: Graceful toolbutton in testing of scintilla editor !7213
- GUI: Question Dialog on running unsaved Macro.Closes #158 !7225
- GUI: Close log dialog on disconnect !7235
- GUI: Initialize models with defaults from bindings if desired !7234
- GUI: Change schema handling in configurator !7237
- GUI: Optimize status widget !7223
- GUI: Icons Widget - Show the messagebox with no parent !7247
- GUI: Provide a toolbar in cinema mode !7178
- GUI: Provide a table controller panel on double click in configurator !7253
- GUI: Cleanup double click event in scene view !7279
- GUI: Move editor to double click and not device scene !7271
- GUI: Flake base binding controller !6933
- GUI: Better handling of Bool editing in the List Edit Dialog. !6910
- GUI: Provide simple background task engine !6932
- GUI: Provide toolbar in Configuration Editor when in cinema mode !6940
- GUI: Add validator again to list regex edit !6939
- GUI: Minor optimization on device filter model selection !6979
- GUI: Reconfigurable tables become state aware !6919
- GUI: Prevent VectorBool to be considered for TableVectorButton !6921
- GUI Server: Remove 'requestFromSlot' and update integration tests. !6903
- GUI: Update dependencies for the GUI: Priority to external conda-forge !6920
- GUI: Remove not required column in project view !6957
- GUI: Put index ref protection in filter model !6959
- GUI: Use native filtering in Configurator filter model !6966
- GUI: Improve image node validation !6964
- GUI: Allow to sort by time in project dialog !6965
- GUI: Use native recursive filtering in the navigation models !6977
- GUI: Data type casting for config singleton !6971
- GUI: Add logger to karabogui api !6952
- GUI: Move test out of unittest framework. !6953
- GUI: Provide option to retrieve default scene on TableStringButton !6942
- GUI: Toggle configurator property alarm coloring !6937
- GUI: DeviceSceneLink becomes a SceneTool widget !6987
- GUI: Align reason text for messagebox !7092
- GUI: Macro Editor - Find Toolbar : Validate the search string !7139
- GUI: Improvements in Macro editor Find Toolbar. !7135
- GUI: Make configurator flags more performant !7142
- GUI: Add offline information to device scene link !6991
- GUI: OK button should accept the KaraboMessageBox dialog. !6993
- GUI: Rename Table Device Dialog to Topology Device Dialog !6997
- GUI: Group Link tasks in a menu !6994
- GUI: Implement InstanceStatus widget !6996
- GUI: Add objectName to ColorBarWidget !7003
- GUI: Cleanup the trendline implementation from Qwt !7004
- GUI: Provide a parent for macro report message box !7033
- GUI: Fix pathparser transport to Python 3.8 !7037
- GUI: Add AccessMode to Configurator Popup !7041
- GUI: Move priority to own conda mirror again !7034
- GUI: AlarmModel parent index alignment !7035
- GUI: Remove archive warning from getConfigurationFromPast !7086
- GUI: Change copyright notice for about dialog !7087
- GUI: Scintilla based Macro editor. !7082
- GUI: Enhance scintilla editor with scripting in background !7089
- GUI: Enable to build scenes with offline devices !7146
- GUI: Fix table binding default value extraction !7158
- GUI: linter for Macro editor. !7160
- GUI: Icons for Code Quality Check buttons. !7175
- GUI: Tests for linters in Macro Editor !7176
- GUI: Fix macro template for code quality !7165
- GUI: Manually create scintilla api for autocompletion !7090
- GUI: Crosshair roi at full integer pixel position. !7095
- GUI: Find and Replace for scintilla-editor. !7102
- GUI: Scintilla Editor - Allow to mix tab and spaces. !7113
- GUI: Highlight the search hits in the Macro editor. !7121
- GUI: Protect edit of table controller when there is no binding !7145
- GUI: Fix slice for RGB images !7148
- Common: Refactor link reader and writer for the models !6992


MDL/Native core
===============

- Native: Implement Enum helpers from Schema !6990
- Native: validate defaultValue for VectorString !7005
- Native: Allow None as default for VectorRegexString !7007
- Native: Allow RegexString to have None as default Closes #18 !7008
- Native: Protect hash repr from unknown hash types !7012
- MDL: Protect NoEventLoop from launching tasks when going down !6938
- MDL: Don't start the AsyncTimer again when the loop is closed, provide success feedback and is_running method !6946
- MDL: Add create_instanceId to testing namespace and enhance !6941
- Use 'aiormq' package for AMQP MDL integration !7045
- MDL: Refactor heartbeat mixin test !7061
- MDL: Choose automatic acknowledgement and disable publisher confirms !7069
- MDL: Optimize lock access in signal binding and unbinding !7070
- MDL: Remove flakyness of output reconnect test !7072
- MDL: Change order of shutdown cleanup !7071
- MDL-AIORMQ: Only subscribe to broadcast messages when required !7074
- MDL: Enhance pytest loop tests with instance attachment !7065
- MDL: Cleanup amqp broker !6999
- MDL: Set event loop in async device test !6918
- MDL: Assignment.INTERNAL in sanitize_write_configuration !6955
- MDL: Rely on instanceGone to remove Child of server !6960
- MDL: Bulk update of prints via timer !6883
- MDL: Provide slotGetConfigurationSlice to get single properties via a remote call !6842
- MDL: Make sure macro instances destruct their print timer at the end !6974
- MDL: Provide set_setter on Configurable !6975
- MDL: Provide a test for loop equal None in timer destruction !6984
- MDL: Deprecate and remove network logging !6985
- MDL: Remove log methods from all brokers !6998
- MDL: Set correct parenthesis on publish !7016
- MDL: Use multiple connections - revert using a single connection !7017
- MDL: Align AMQP Connection with JMS !7019
- MDL: Maintain exit stack with asyncio event instead !7021
- MDL: Remove manual shutdown of executor and trust the loop stop !7020
- MDL: Provide async send, call and emit for AMQP !7023
- MDL: Use asynchronous heartbeat in AMQPCloses #27 and #26 !7024
- MDL: Provide async disconnect and connect in AMQP !7027
- MDL: Remove flakyness from pipeline reconnection test in AMQP !7025
- MDL: Refactor AsyncDeviceTest and event_loop !7055
- MDL: Attach pid to server logger message and attach instance to task !7049
- MDL: Fix the flakyness of the monitor shutdown test !7100
- MDL: Move utils test to pytest infrastructure !7103
- MDL: Move synchronization test to pytest !7104
- MDL: Include caller in lastCommand !7112
- MDL: Stabilize injected output channel injection test !7110
- MDL: Teardown wait tests with state unknown in macro test !7111
- MDL: Make sure the MacroSlot updates on cancellation !7107
- MDL: Fix flaky device node test !7117
- MDL: Adjust macro waituntil test !7119
- MDL: Adjust once more the remote pipeline injection test !7118
- MDL: Align signalfunction parsing for amqp !7115
- MDL: Provide countdown context manager and use in cancellation of macros !7116
- MDL: Ensure future for publish on amqp, not call soon !7109
- MDL: One more addition to the flaky print test !7106
- MDL: Formally set eventloop to None after thread is done !7125
- MDL: Allow Assignment.INTERNAL descriptors to have no default value !7126
- MDL: Synchronously shutdown device on ikarabo exit !7124
- MDL: Use async context to enter remote device for macros !7131
- MDL: Protect ikarabo shutdown from exceptions !7133
- MDL: Provide a consume_beats for the device server !7134
- MDL: Port client test to pytest !7137
- MDL: Add Device server and cache log to namespace !7140
- MDL: Refactor Monitor test and provide assertLogs and run test decorator !7060
- MDL: Refactor inject node test !7063
- MDL: Refactor json test for pytest !7062
- MDL: Refactor macro test for pytest !7064
- MDL: String formatting in amqp broker !7075
- MDL: Remove all amqp broker extra treatment !7077
- MDL: Mark async fixture with pytest_asyncio !7093
- MDL: relax flaky test of timeit decorator !7096
- MDL: Await to stop heartbeat_task explicitly for jms !7097
- MDL: Align flakyness of device timer test !7099
- MDL: Provide isStringSet and directly use in getDevice and connectDevice !7094
- MDL: Fix flaky print macro test !7098
- MDL: Refactor remote device test !7079
- MDL: Unify broker interface !7083
- MDL: Refactor remote pipeline test for pytest !7080
- MDL: Refactor device_test for pytest !7084
- MDL: Provide convenient async timer handling. They are always stopped and destroyed. !6976
- MDL: Suggestion to use deviceId as a queue name !7143
- MDL: Align macro slot state update for AMQP !7162
- MDL: Provide slot reply test with state update !7161
- MDL: Provide a device ordering test for slots and properties !7132
- MDL: Test order between slot calls and signal emission !7152
- MDL: Move message order test code out of PropertyTestMDL !7156
- MDL: Remove flakyness of output change schema test !7155
- MDL: Provide Heartbeat consume implementation for AMQP !7136
- MDL: Add a test for a mandatory vector !7157
- Common: Cleanup scene link models !6988
- ikarabo: Command lines don't have a logger !6913
- AMQP: Activate integration tests again !7073
- Remove archive from instanceInfo completely. Closes #61 !7174
- MDL: Increase join timeout in cli test: test_delete !7216
- MDL: Robust timeit test !7215
- MDL: Move KaraboJSONEncoder to native data !7192
- MDL: Make NoEventLoop awaitable to cycle the loop !7123
- MDL: Configure AMQP Broker queues with expiry time and max length !7217
- MDL: Adjust macro cancel async slot test with sleepUntil !7222
- MDL: Another flaky delete_test fix for CLI !7219
- MDL: Adjust pipeline injected channel test with sleep !7233
- MDL: Transport pipeline test to pytest !7128
- MDL: Again fix the flaky delete and cancel tests !7245
- MDL: Close all proxies on instance shutdown quickly !7232
- MDL: Only drop for heartbeat queue and align the queue name !7249
- MDL: Fix another flaky pipeline context test !7250
- Native: Provide test for popping value from Table with QuantityValue !7141
- MDL: Fix another flaky output channel test !7248
- MDL: Heartbeat mixin calls for instanceInfo on zombie !7138
- MDL test: Delay assert in macro_test !7257
- Common: Scene2py can consider a different children name !7243
- MDL: Align flaky topology cli test !7258
- MDL: Enable optional dependencies for MDL only installations !7154
- MDL: Add slotDeviceUp to bound server !7273
- MDL: Align heartbeat queue for max length !7267
- MDL: Remove 'archive' key from the instanceInfo for macros. !7283
- MDL: Add timestamp to messages from openmqc !7180
- MDL: Fix flakyness of macro cancel test !7169
- MDL: Add async waitUntil test for macro !7166
- MDL: Remove output schema test flakyness !7183
- MDL: Remove pipeline channels graceful on cancellation !7170
- MDL: Cleanup heartbeat implementation !7147
- MDL: Test cross waits for raw channel count !7231

Bound/cpp core
==============

- C++: Report ill-formed requestGeneric info back to GUI client !6917
- C++: Fixed data logger connection failure handling !7001
- C++: Fix initial topology gathering of the GuiServer !7029
- C++: Track senderId in lastCommand !7031
- C++: Add Device::slotGetConfigurationSlice and Device::getCurrentConfigurationSlice !7032
- C++: Allow Device::writeChannel to specify safeNDArray for OutputChannel::update !6968
- C++: Add deviceId to exception message of Device::get !6978
- C++: Protect factory against two libs with the same class !7058
- C++: Less coupling in JMS test !7091
- C++: Event loop improvements, e.g. directly add new threads !7067
- C++: Try to avoid hanging Strand_Test !7120
- C++: Use Ninja as the Generator if it is available. !7122
- C++: Implement AMQP connection failover with RabbitMQ cluster !6667
- C++: Add missing weak ptr protections in SignalSlotable !7144
- C++: Properly construct and initialize DeviceClient !6982
- C++: Suggestion to fix message ordering issue for AMQP !7153
- C++: Do not start threads before event loop is started !7150
- C++/Bound: By default, global alarm condition should not need acknowledgement !6970
- C++/Bound: Add flag to avoid NDArray data copy even if pipeline queues !6935
- C++/Bound: Remove sending logs to broker !7022
- C++/Bound: Improve device templates !7177
- Bound: Add order test !7164
- Bound: Add slotGetConfigurationSlice !7039
- Bound: Track senderId in lastCommand !7042
- Bound: fix slotLoggerContent if server has no devices !7046
- Bound: Allow setting a handler for SIGTERM and SIGINT !7043
- Bound: Streamline device running, less threads !7050
- Bound: Fix for silent plugin load failure for Bound Python device server. !7044
- Remove archive from instanceInfo completely. Closes #61 !7174
- C++: Add clang exception to gcc detection. !7252
- C++: UserAuth with HttpClient based on Boost Beast wrapping libraries. !7246
- C++: Properly copy a Validator !7244
- C++: Broker shortcut without access of static map !7130
- C++: thread correctness of exception trace !7255
- C++: Only complain (no bail out) if constructor is registered a 2nd time !7261
- C++: Add failure messages on test failures !7265
- C++ tests: Less fixed sleep in data logger integration test !7268
- C++: AMQP - Fix C++ device server's shutdown delays !7272
- C++/Bound: Use auto acknowlegdement mode in AMQP !7262
- C++: More cautious Strand destructor fixes Python integration test !7184
- C++: Remove broker logging support !7185
- C++: Adapt to requirements of next Boost releases !7189
- C++: Fix a bug in the parsing of HTTP headers by the InfluxDbClient and add a test. !7196
- C++: AMQP - Fix bug while shutting down C++ devices !7193
- C++: Add missing publisher resets !7204
- C++: Influx log reader reports details if schema not found !7203
- C++: Implement user authentication by pure 'beast' !7209
- C++: Better event loop shutdown protection for integration tests !7218
- C++ Test: Increase timeout for channel connection !7221
- C++: Fix compiler warning about unexpected copy !7202
- C++: Expose Influx server version in InfluxDbClient. Update the CI version of Influx to 1.8.0 (latest OSS). !7212
- C++ Tests: Fix TcpAdapter::waitFor !7226
- C++ Tests: Clean client handling !7227
- C++: Temporarily disable broken GUI Server authorize token integration test. !7228
- C++: Remove signal cleaning on instanceNewFixes alarm test flakiness. !7238
- C++: Do not assert, but throw on wrong URL on Tcp config !7241
- Bound: remove unused regex variable !7242
- C++/Bound: Remove unused handlers for instanceNew/Gone/Updated !7239
- C++: Signal::registerSlot with return value and unit test !7240
- C++: More robost pipeline test !7186
- C++ Tests: Debug output when devices do not get up in  test_chain_receivers !7187
- C++ Tests: Add debug info to alarm integration test !7229
- C++ Tests: Fix code added for debugging !7230



Core Devices
============

- DataLogger: Better message for no schema found while getting past config. !6926
- DaemonManager: Protect from faulty webservers ... !7085
- InfluxDataLogger: to log vector Hash rejection in detail !6989
- Python influx: Remove a few deprecation warnings and code quality !7159


Dependencies, Documentation and Tools
=====================================

- Add support to AlmaLinux 9. !7256
- Drop Ubuntu18 support from CI !7220
- Tests: Skip Python integration tests on CI for AMQP broker !7066
- DEP: Update openmqc to version 5.1.4.1 (fix for compilation on GCC 11.3). !6936
- DEPS: Update miniconda image !7053
- DEPS: Maintain tag folder for cmake and netbeans build in karabo install !7078
- DEPS: Add qscintilla dependancy !7081
- DEPS: Remove Conda environment-based build !7151
- DEPS: Add Conan Package Manager as an external Framework dependency. !7173
- Conda: Update mirror on demand !7009
- DOC: fix MDL library description !6922
- DOC: add a CI test for the documentation !6923
- DOC: Document 2.16 release !6927
- DOC: 2.16 add feature and bugfixes section !6931
- DOC: More documentation for 2.16.X !6934
- DOC: remove duplication for C++ in 2.16 !6945
- DOC: document 2.16.1 and 2.17 !7006
- DOC: More details about safeNDArray option in 2.16.1 !7010
- DOC: Fix omission about the need to run 'auto_build_all.sh'  before opening project in VSCode. !7172
- DOC: Documentation 2.16.X: Split Core Devices !6928
- DOC: Add more highlights to doc 2.16 !6929
- DOC: Start documenting 2.17 !6981
- DOC: Document 2.16: MDL detail !7011
- DOC: document 2.16.2 !7048
- DOC: Fix test_doc ci step !7052
- DOC: Adjust removed 'gitlab' from urls, update supported platforms !7056
- DOC: Fix gitlab link !7051
- DOC: Document 2.17. until alpha 6 !7236
- CI: Add build and test jobs for Ubuntu22. !6924
- TOOLS: remove tags on karabo install !7018
- TOOLS: Fix typo in karabo-kill help message. !7000
- TOOLS: Add Python and IDE related entries to MDL/Bound Python .gitignore templates. !7276
