..
  Copyright (C) European XFEL GmbH Schenefeld. All rights reserved.


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.19.4
***************************

This patch release contains **Redhat9** support and two fixes for the `karaboGUI` client.
Now the Region Of Interest of the Graph Widgets can be moved around freely and the editor can
be raised from the scene view again.

- ci(RedHat 9): Add RedHat 9 support to the CI !8121
- GUI: Remove setting boundary for ROI !8132
- fix(GUI): fix raising of editor on scene view !8139

***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.19.3
***************************

This patch release is directed towards the latest topology errors. Before, an instance update
received a device that is not yet present in the topology is rejected. This is correct behavior,
but did lead to a lot of false topologies.
Now an instance update will complete a topology again. Note that for 2.20.X this behavior is reverted again.

- Revert "C++: Protect from false instanceUpdate receival --- be verbose on faulty messages" (Cherry pick 2.19.X)


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.19.2
***************************

This patch release is directed to the dataloggers. After the change in 2.19.0 to always create
a new client for an influx request, schema retrievals did cause the dataloggers to segfault.
Now a single client is retained and always disconnected after the requests.

- perf(InfluxLogger): single DbClient for reading, disconnect when idle (2.19.X-hotfix)


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.19.1
***************************

This patch release brings a few **concert** fixes and improvements and aligns *nan* value
behavior in the trendline widget to 2.18.X.

- GUI: Add target window to concert open scene (2.19.1 hotfix) !7969
- GUI: Add karabo concert directory (2.19.1 hotfix) !7973
- GUI: karabo-concert from GUI (2.19.1 hotfix) !7985
- GUI: Fix levels dialog accounting zero values (Cherry-pick hotfix 2.19) !8000
- GUI: Trendlines always draw connect array dots (Cherry-pick hotfix) !8005
- C++: Explicitly disable connections in OutputChannel destructor (Backport to 2.19) !7986
- C++: Enable TCP keep alive via configuration options (Backport to 2.19) !7987
- C++: Input channel uses TCP keep-alive (Backport to 2.19) !7988
- MDL: Declare default socket variables for pipeline channel table (2.19.X hotfix) !7990
- Influx: Avoid access to the front of an empty queue (UB) (2.19.X-hotfix) !8007


***************************
What's New in Karabo 2.19.0
***************************

Release date was November 13, 2023.


Summary – Release highlights
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

GUI Logbook, AMQP broker production ready, C++/Bound pipeline enhancements,
dependency updates, and more:

- GUI: **LogBook support!** Scenes, configs, etc. can be send with annotation to
  an electronic log book backend. Device was developed for Zulip ELOG at EuXFEL.
- GUI: A new application mode besides *karabo-cinema* and *karabo-theatre* is
  provided, the **karabo-concert**.
  From a running GUI, a yaml file can be created that stores information about
  open scenes and their position on the screen.
  If this yaml file is passed to *karabo-concert*, scenes are positioned
  accordingly.
- GUI: XY Plots now gracefully accept vectors of different length.
- All API: First official production release supporting the Rabbit MQ (AMQP)
  broker.
- C++: To auto start devices, device servers now support an `init` configuration
  option with the same (json) syntax as MDL (`autoStart` still supported).
- Bound: As in C++, *updateState* now supports to update further properties in
  one go with the state.
- C++/Bound: Under the hood, output channels now send data asynchronously.
  *Device.writeChannel* and *OutputChannel.update* stay synchronous for
  backward compatibility, but *OutputChannel.asyncUpdate[NoWait]* offers the
  full benefit of being asynchronous.
- C++/Bound: To control which of the input channels connected with "shared"
  data distribution, device code can now register a *SharedInputSelector* at an
  output channel.
- All API: A new *slotGetSystemInfo* for devices provides information about
  their broker connection, timing information and user.
- Python API: All device templates are now provided with a toml structure.
  The framework supports and is now aligned to PEP621 (https://peps.python.org/pep-0621/).
  All device tags must follow PEP440 (https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/).
- Various dependency updates (`boost`, `numpy`,...) as outlined below.

Breaking Changes
++++++++++++++++

- Macro: Before 2.19.0, the class name was appended to the original deviceId, resulting in DeviceID-ClassName.
  From 2.19.0 onwards, this has been removed and all gui scenes referring to macros need to be adjusted.
- C++/Bound ImageData header has been removed, see migration guidelines.
- C++/Bound: DetectorGeometry has been removed, see migration guidelines.
- C++: Removal of the Motor and Camera interface class.
- Bound/C++: The default value of the *safeNDArray* flag of the methods
  *Device.writeChannel* and *OutputChannel.update* have been switched back to
  true (as was the case before 2.18.0) for safety.
  On the other hand the *copyAllData* flag of *OutputChannel.write* is ignored
  now and the method behaves as if previously the flag was false.
- C++: The 'disributionMode' configuration for shared connections of an
  OutputChannel is now ignored. The behaviour matches the old default
  (load-balanced) except if the new *SharedInputSelector* feature is used.
- MDL: The `Injectable` class, being an empty class placeholder for quite a while, has been removed. See migration guidelines.
- MDL: The middlelayer_api namespace is not anymore availabe, see migration guidelines.
- AlarmService: The alarm service has been removed from the framework. A new alarm device implementation will be provided outside of the framework.

Change of behaviour
+++++++++++++++++++

- Macro: instanceInfo status is always `ok`
- All API: device servers don't regularly scan plugins anymore. This feature has been removed from C++ and MDL.
  The device plugins are only scanned once on startup.
- All API: The pipeline option `queue` has been deprecated and is treated as `queueDrop` if configured.
- GUI: All runtime attribute configurations are not available anymore. This fades out the alarm attribute configuration from the Configurator.
- C++/Bound: Output channel schema default values are not included anymore in the device configuration. This is visible when calling
  *slotGetConfiguration*.
- All API: The heartbeat information does not include anymore the full instance info, only the instance type and interval.


Dependency Updates
++++++++++++++++++

This release contains a major boost update to **1.82** (was 1.68).
Additionally, several updates for python packages have been done::

    atomicwrites==1.4.1, was 1.4.0
    backports-abc==0.5, was 0.4
    backports.ssl-match-hostname==3.7.0.1, was 3.5.0.1
    chardet==5.1.0, was 3.0.4
    Cython==0.29.35, was 0.29.24
    dill==0.3.6, was 0.2.5
    ecdsa==0.18.0, was 0.11
    flake8==6.0.0, was 3.8.4
    flit==3.9.0, was 3.8.0
    httplib2==0.22.0, was 0.9.1
    importlib-metadata==6.7.0, was 3.3.0
    matplotlib==3.7.1, was 2.1.1
    msgpack-numpy==0.4.8, was 0.4.3
    nose==1.3.7, was 1.3.0
    parse==1.19.1, was 1.6.3
    peewee==3.16.2, was 3.14.0
    pg8000==1.29.8, was 1.21.2
    platformdirs==3.8.0, was 3.5.1
    psutil==5.9.5, was 4.3.1
    pyusb==1.2.1, was 1.0.0b1
    tabulate==0.9.0, was 0.8.9
    tzlocal==5.0.1, was 1.1.1
    numpy==1.22.4, was 1.21.4
    scipy==1.7.3, was 1.6.3

Packages that have been **removed**: h5py

Packages that have been **added**:

    pytz==2020.5 (before 2.18.0 was 2013.9; missing in 2.18.0) 



Detailed Merge-Log
++++++++++++++++++


MDL/Native core
===============

- MDL: Timer can reference to an instance !7648
- MDL: Increase timeout in pipeline test !7687
- MDL: Take care of race condition when destructing device twice via signal slotable (garbage collector) !7697
- MDL: Make project manager test more robust !7709
- MDL: remove DeviceNode warning !7700
- MDL: increase timeout in ipython_test !7705
- MDL: Test inject options for strings with no defaultvalue !7711
- MDL: Macros always have instance info status ok !7775
- MDL: Describe output channel schema with displayType !7729
- MDL: Delete macro_api namespace !7728
- MDL: Remove Injectable from public namespace. !7736
- MDL: Remove weakref example for localdevice !7738
- MDL: Don't send instanceInfo via heartbeats !7708
- MDL: Create instance task wrapper !7741
- MDL: Remove DeviceClient project !7786
- MDL: Make middlelayer a real package !7716
- MDL: Provide slotGetSystemInfo. Closes #271 !7897
- MDL: Fix slot reply for non existent slots or wrong parameters settings !7877
- MDL: Macros don't append the class name to the deviceId !7876
- MDL: Removal of scanning plugins for MDL. Closes #616 !7868
- MDL: Use ignorelist instead of blacklist !7870
- MDL: Provide conftest with event_loop fixture !7861
- MDL: Remove pipeline "queue" option, silently converted to "queueDrop" !7841
- MDL: Include ProxyFactory in namespace !7854
- MDL: Template: remove email from toml !7847
- MDL: Remove assert display type on pipeline schema !7864
- MDL: Remove legacy alarm implementation !7790
- MDL: Remove MQTT Broker implementation !7789
- MDL: Increase timeout in device_server_test.py !7803
- MDL: ConfigurationManager does not use runtime attributes anymore !7800
- MDL: Remove flakyness for test_count for monitors !7806
- MDL: Remove attr fast deepcopy and extract attribute modifications !7805
- MDL: Cleanup eventloop implementations !7846
- Common: Rename base64 image functions !7712

Bound/cpp core
==============

- Py11: Fix exception printing Closes #576 !7916
- Py11: Completing Hash, Schema, time classes, etc. !7647
- Py11: Binding for SignalSlotable... without IO channels Closes #346 !7616
- Py11: Binding for EventLoop !7623
- Py11: Add SLOT_ELEMENT and unit tests for SignalSlotable !7621
- Py11: Optimize castPySequenceToStdVector !7677
- Py11 xms: pipeline schema elements" Closes #351 !7644
- Py11: BYTEARRAY_ELEMENT Closes #421 !7680
- Py11: Use call_once in FromNumpy singleton Closes #373 !7681
- Py11: Check that all commented `allowedActions` are uncommented and correctly working. Closes #377 !7685
- Py11: ndarray binding missing 'deepcopy' Closes #372 !7686
- Py11: karabo/io+net binding !7750
- Py11: Test bindings of synchronous TCP read and write !7813
- Py11: Logger binding !7767
- Py11: Add tests (and fix) for async Tcp read/write and Broker bindings Closes #557 !7829
- Py11: Try to fix hanging test !7836
- Py11: Add test for NDArray created on C++ side. Closes #376 !7688
- C++: karabo-cppserver can use the init keyword for autostart. !7904
- C++ Integration Tests: Tweak some timings to avoid failures on a loaded CI. !7943
- C++: Add rescue thread in OutputChannel if event loop blocked !7947
- C++: Get rid of one mutex in OutputChannel and minor cleaning !7913
- C++: Provide slotGetSystemInfo !7898
- C++: remove output channel schema from slotGetConfiguration. !7892
- C++: OutputChannel cleaning and properly test asyncUpdate !7917
- C++: Small fix for message logger for AMQP !7926
- C++: Proper array de-allocator in NDArray corner case !7927
- C++: semi-async OutputChannel::asyncUpdate for simple use Closes #660 !7924
- C++ tests: Increase timeout in xms test !7951
- C++: Little code cleaning !7723
- C++: AmqpClient always uses configurable timeout !7720
- C++ int. test: Try few times to get updates from influx !7725
- C++ Data logging: Log everything received to stabilize tests !7722
- C++ int. tests: Longer timeout to instantiate logger/logreader devices !7734
- C++ tests: Fix flakiness of xms tests !7739
- C++: Move "activateKarabo.in". Distinct  "activate" for build tree. !7737
- C++ tests: unify timeout !7643
- C++: Shared pipeline with user defined distribution !7655
- C++: Update doc of bind_weak. Also use `bind_weak` in pipeline selector test and clean `MetaTools_Test::testWeakBind`. !7656
- C++: Increase DeviceClient timeout !7695
- C++ integration tests: Use AMQP broker Closes #436 !7679
- C++: Treat corner case of coincident reply arrival and timeout !7704
- C++: Remove unused handler copy from AmqpBroker !7703
- C++ test: Robuster SignalSlotable::testAutoConnectSlot !7670
- C++: Do not run Karabo [un]subscribe handlers on AMQP event loop Closes #456 !7718
- C++ template: set RPATH to be relative and include extern/lib64 directory !7678
- C++: Update cmake external dependency from 3.17.5 to 3.27.1 !7755
- C++: Use boost::beast directly for http(s) client (no Belle library) !7742
- C++: Add "certify" header-only library dependency. !7771
- C++: Async TCP writing of BufferSets !7810
- C++: (Tcp)Channel cleaning* remove methods not in inherited interface !7821
- C++ signalHeartbeat heartbeatInfo reduced to type, heartbeatInterval !7730
- C++: heartbeatInterval type in heartbeatInfo corrected to to int !7828
- C++: Minor cleaning, test timeout increase !7838
- C++: Remove 'disributionMode' from OutputChannel behaviour for shared connections !7837
- C++: Remove pipeline "queue" option, use "queueDrop" !7840
- C++: Unit tests for HttpClient !7791
- C++: Silent log message, only once ask for topology in gui server !7801
- C++ Integration Test: Tweak Influx safe schema retention test timing. !7866
- C++: Remove periodic scan of plugins by the DeviceServer. !7852
- C++: Define common Influx constants in a single place. !7856
- C++ Remove digit separator from numerical constants in header file(requires C++14). !7881
- C++: Ensure that WriteCompleteHandler is called even if TcpChannel destructed !7857
- C++: Protect from false instanceUpdate receival --- be verbose on faulty messages !7772
- C++: Take care that InputChannel data handler are called without mutex lock !7894
- C++: Asynchronous tcp when OutputChannel sends data !7858
- C++/test: allow logs in C++ device integration tests !7867
- C++/test: Add debug info to pipeline chain test !7689
- C++: Remove Motor and Camera interface !7787
- C++: Amqp with less copies of Hash for message header and body !7726
- Bound: flake8 failure on modern flake8: del is not a function !7675
- Bound: Semi-async OutputChannel::asyncUpdate !7937
- Bound: Add async sending of EOS !7938
- Bound: Longer timeout before restarting device with same id !7676
- Bound: updateState with extra arguments Closes #502 !7701
- Bound: Pass cfg to device as binary - fixes vector string with comma in string !7817
- Bound: Robust test of injected channels !7818
- Bound: Bindings for OutputChannel.registerSharedInputSelector. Closes #583 !7834
- Bound: use a toml instead of setup.py !7848
- Bound: python server replies on errors on deviceinstantiation if it happens on the `__init__` stage. !7879
- Bound/C++ tests: Need more wait to ensure pipeline connection !7641
- Bound/C++: Describe output channel schema with displayType !7735
- Bound/C++: Remove legacy alarm implementation !7774
- Bound/C++: OutputChannel default safeNDArray flag back to false, ignore copyAllData !7661
- Bound/C++: Remove InputChannel schema !7746
- Bound/C++: Remove MQTT implementation and Redis !7788
- Bound/C++: Remove DetectorGeometry !7785
- All API: Provide displayType for lockedBy property !7936


Graphical User Interface
========================

- GUI: Sort scene data for logbook Closes #652 !7903
- GUI: post styles in the Logbook Closes #648 !7902
- GUI: Fix button state in logbook preview dialog Closes #647 !7907
- GUI: Rename dataType in logbook from image to text_image !7905
- GUI: Prevent catching ListOfNodes or ChoiceOfNodes for scene panel data !7906
- GUI: Use timingId instead of trainId !7909
- GUI: karabo-concert Closes #11 !7908
- GUI: Add logbook icon !7919
- GUI: Add pyyaml to the dependencies !7914
- GUI: Option to write yaml for karabo-concert Closes #654 !7910
- GUI: Logbook - option to upload table (csv). Closes #650 !7920
- GUI: Singleton configuration for logbook title style. Closes #655 !7925
- GUI: Create a new topic from logbook dialog Closes #656 !7930
- GUI: Set invalid index on combo delegate in table !7931
- GUI: Logbook - option to copy entry to other proposal of different karabo topic. Closes #651 !7934
- GUI: Find segfault in logbook drawing tests !7933
- GUI: Remove toggle of logbook toolbar Closes #665 !7935
- GUI: Close logbook dialog on connection closure !7950
- GUI: Icons for add/remove destinations in logbook !7939
- GUI: Adjust logbook dialog size and policies !7940
- GUI: Fix create topic behaviour: !7941
- GUI: Concurrency in stream combobox of multiple opened logbook dialogs Closes #679 !7942
- GUI: Fix levels dialog for floats !7607
- GUI: Fix pyinstaller script including pyflakes !7665
- GUI: Align single bit unit label and formatting !7663
- GUI: Remove logging panel and subscribe logs !7673
- GUI: Data Analysis Dialog from VectorXY Graph/Scatter. Closes #134 !7645
- GUI: Remove attribute injection on project configuration !7672
- GUI: Protect fitting in Data Analysis Dialog from no data !7692
- GUI: Data Analysis Dialog: Implement Sech Square fitting option Closes #453 !7698
- GUI: Validate the order of the alarm conditions Closes #505 !7706
- GUI: KaraboLogBook preview !7684
- GUI: Abstract more the logbook interface !7714
- GUI: Remove comparison warning for base label with higher numpy version !7707
- GUI: Provide karabo logbook icon !7715
- GUI: Fix simple validator from corner case input 000X !7710
- GUI: LogBook image preview !7717
- GUI: Fit image to the LogbookView on opening the dialog Closes #518!7721
- GUI: More abstraction on logbook panel info !7724
- GUI: Disable logbook save button if no destinations available !7743
- GUI: bugfix enable/disable save button correctly !7744
- GUI: Initial parameters for fitting functions in Data Analysis Dialog. !7751
- GUI: User friendly zooming on axis. Closes #35 !7777
- GUI: Remove attributes from configurator !7778
- GUI: KaraboLogBook - Table Preview. Closes #467 !7740
- GUI: Upgrade pyqtgraph to latest version Closes #361 !7792
- GUI: Logbook Preview- annotate image !7763
- GUI: Update Qt to 5.15.9 !7776
- GUI: Attr fast deepcopy has no runtime attrs !7804
- GUI: Do not allow set log values on X-axis in Bar Graph. Closes #572 !7809
- GUI: Highlight filter search with changing color !7784
- GUI: LogBook: grab pixmap from GraphicsScene. !7815
- GUI: Option to change font for Text annotation in Logbook image preview. Closes #551 !7816
- GUI: Logbook annotation: Don't loose drawing tool. !7819
- GUI: Configurator Panel Search does not have validation !7824
- GUI: Provide error message on missing scheduled big data request !7823
- GUI: LogBook option to edit the title Closes #578 !7827
- GUI: Data Analysis Dialog should auto-update the plot. Closes #454 !7822
- GUI: Vector XY Scatter Graph aligns to different sizes !7826
- GUI: Option to change Pen color for Logbook image annotations. Closes #550 !7831
- GUI: Account different vector sizes in vector xy graph !7825
- GUI: Logbook - remove reference to eLog !7844
- GUI: Synchronize scrollbars in configuration preview dialog. Closes #621 !7865
- GUI: Preserve type for list edit dialog in comma separation !7814
- GUI: Option to select topic from the stream in the Logbook dialog !7878
- GUI: Preserve latest configuration for text edit in logbook dialog. Closes #579 !7851
- GUI: Editing/Saving Macro throws traceback. Closes #164 !7835
- GUI: Add string attribute icon !7794
- GUI: ui changes in Logbook dialog !7885
- GUI: Provide a repr for the ProjectPanel !7886
- GUI: Provide a nice repr for the TopologyPanel !7887
- GUI: Representation string for WidgetControllerPanel !7888
- GUI: Repr for MacroPanel !7889
- GUI: Representation for DeviceToplogy Panel !7890
- GUI: remove alarm panel. Closes #574 !7882
- GUI: Avoid test failure. !7891
- GUI: Logbook dialog store the selected Stream name. !7883
- GUI: Editable topics for logbook dialog !7896
- GUI: npy, npz to csv converter tool. Closes #635 !7899
- GUI: Color dialog hides the logbook dialog behind the main window. !7850

Core Devices
============

- Alarms: Remove AlarmService device !7691
- Influx/C++: Avoid unneeded map look-ups in the log reader (review suggestion for MR 7657). !7659
- Influx/C++: Avoid potential silent failure during schema writing !7918
- Influx/C++: Preserve schemas older than the database safe retention time. !7832
- Influx/C++: InfluxDbClient instances with per slot lifetimes in InfluxLogReader. !7758
- Influx/C++: Fix reading of new schema if old schema was written pre-2.17.0 !7657

Dependencies, Documentation and Tools
=====================================

- CI: Fix some holes about tests to run !7929
- DEPS: use conan to build log4cpp !7911
- DEPS: use conan to build daemontools !7915
- DEPS: Use fixed tag from tecki daemontools !7921
- DEPS: Upgrade jedi to 0.17.2 !7949
- DEPS: pkgconfig file patching should also include files that we build from sources, and not via conan. !7664
- DEPS: Use pyexistdb instead of hand-patched eulexistdb !7667
- DEPS: Upgrade to boost-1.82.0 !7666
- DEPS: Update packages !7671
- DEPS: Evaluate QScintilla update 2.14.0 Closes #434 !7699
- DEPS: Upgrade pillow to 10.0 and pip to 22.3.1 !7702
- DEPS: remove hdf5 as build dependency, cleanup resources directory !7768
- DEPS: Fix for karaboPackageDependencies.pc !7795
- DEPS: Remove h5py !7781
- DEPS: move pillow into the --no-binary list of dependencies !7731
- DEPS: copy certify headers when boost pkg is exported !7783
- DEPS: remove manual patchelf build !7780
- DEPS: simply use pre-built numpy/scipy !7872
- DEPS: Do not build libzmq with CentOS-7 incompatible version of libsodium. !7875
- DEPS: Pin jedi for autocompletion bug in ikarabo/ipython Closes #630 !7880
- DEPS: Remove MQTT and Redis dependencies !7799
- DEPS: Remove certify dependency. !7808
- DEPS: Add pytz dependency and rollback pyzmq to 22.3.0.. !7843
- DEPS: Set KARABO variable for pkg-config in CMake template !7747
- DOC: Document release date !7952
- DOC: Add mergelog until 2.19.0rc3 !7901
- DOC: Document 2.18.0 !7650
- DOC: Document: Removal of items move in 2.18 !7651
- DOC: Emphasize removal of dependencies !7802
- DOC: Document latest dependency updates !7693
- DOC: Update build from sources document !7757
- DOC: Unlink outdated text file data logging doc. Add content to current data logging doc. !7760
- DOC: Document 2.17.1 !7782
- DOC: Update versions of pytz and pyzmq dependencies in the documentation. !7845
- DOC: Install miniconda using script. !7833
- DOC: Document migration guidelines !7853
- DOC: Add 2.19 to index !7855
- DOC: Document 2.17.2 hotfix !7859
- TOOLS: fix import check for . imports !7646
- TOOLS: replace setup.py with pyproject.toml in MDL template !7694
- TOOLS: bootstrap python using conan !7759
- TOOLS: bootstrap cmake using conan !7764
- TOOLS: move boost build into conanfile.txt !7766
- TOOLS: Enter clang-precommit -i and karabind to the files !7773
- TOOLS: move nss build to conanfile-bootstrap !7765
- TOOLS: run pip install when pyproject.toml files present !7732
- TOOLS: add pre-commit examples to device templates !7719
- TOOLS: Fix for invalid zip when generating Karabo package. !7796
- TOOLS: Improve Pybind11 requirement specification and update the CMake project. !7748
- TOOLS: Cmake karaboPackageDependencies.pc now brings in patch level version as wellPut full version of karabo into its pkgconfig file !7830
- TOOLS: Lint IntegrationTests Python !7862
- TOOLS: Provide AutoPep8 in precommit !7863
- TOOLS: Align device_scm_version with pep440 !7869
- TOOLS: Align docs to markdown and remove os script !7871
- TOOLS: Use default git describe command for versioning !7895
- TOOLS: Remove alarm server from jms default eservices Closes #580 !7884
- TOOLS: CMake - `Framework/src/karabo` may be compiled in isolation !7893
- TOOLS: Provide explicit options, by default linting is active !7928



Migration Guidelines
++++++++++++++++++++

General remarks:

- A lot of device repositories (python) make use of the *isort* package.
This package orders the imports. Please activate a karabo installation and type *isort .*
in the repository folder in case imports are not ordered according to CI failure.

1.
From 2.19.X onwards the namespace **middlelayer_api** has been removed.
The only supported namespaces for device developers to import from are: *karabo.middlelayer*, *karabo.bound*


.. code-block:: python

    from karabo.middlelayer_api.tests.eventloop import DeviceTest, async_tst
    # Imports moved, please use
    from karabo.middlelayer.testing import DeviceTest, async_tst


2.
Since March 2021, the `Injectable` class is not required anymore in device code
and has been deprecated. Finally, from 2.19.X onwards, the class is removed from karabo.


.. code-block:: python

    from karabo.middlelayer_api.injectable import Injectable

    class GATTPhysicalUnit(Injectable, Device):
        ...

    # Injectable is not required anymore and will throw, remove import and use

    class GATTPhysicalUnit(Device):
        ...


3.
Dependency upgrade: yaml -> use `yaml.safe_load` instead of `yaml.load`


.. code-block:: python

    # The following line will throw, yaml.load requires a kwarg `loader`
    data = yaml.load(file.read())

    # use
    data = yaml.safe_load(file.read())


4.
C++ Boost placeholders (e.g. ::_1) need to be explicitly declared, otherwise code is not compiling
To make the code working again, please add on top of the file

.. code-block:: C++

    using boost::placeholders::_1;
    using boost::placeholders::_2;

5.
`ImageData` *header* functionality has been **removed** from the Framework for both C++ and Bound.
Hence, code containing this functionality will throw or prevent compilation.


6.
`DetectorGeometry` has been removed from C++ and Bound due to non-use in operation. An import
will throw an exception.

7.
Use the `central CI template` (https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/gitlabci)
C++ example: https://git.xfel.eu/karaboDevices/scanlabGalvo/-/merge_requests/37/diffs
Python example: https://git.xfel.eu/karaboDevices/vacuumSection/-/merge_requests/27/diffs

Please be aware that the central CI template utilizes pytest instead of nosetests. If your test file lacks the prefix 'test_', it will not be able to test the device. To resolve this issue, kindly rename your test files to include 'test_' in the name. For example, you can rename 'TestBeckhoffAssistant.py' to 'test_beckhoff_assistant.py'.
