************************
What's New in Karabo 2.2
************************


C++ and Bound Python
======================

Standalone DeviceClient
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

The constructors to create a standalone `DeviceClient` do not take anymore
arguments about the broker connection. They always use the default behaviour.

Instead, one can now specify the instanceId of the `DeviceClient` object
instead of getting a default one generated: `DeviceClient(instanceId)`.
In fact, that is the recommended
way since otherwise a program that crashes after creating a standalone
`DeviceClient` may leave remnants in the system, even if restarted.

These remnants are useless signal subscriptions since the restarted program
has a new instanceId. They can potentially slow down the broker and every
recipient of the emitted signals. If restarted with the same id as before
(as usually is done with devices and servers), these remnants are cleaned.

**************************
What's New in Karabo 2.2.4
**************************

C++ and Bound Python
=====================

Empty Key Handling of Hash
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Empty strings are now valid keys of a `Hash`.

Before, a completely empty path (`aHash.set("", something)`) let to a crash and
empty keys as part of a path with sub-keys were simply ignored.
That means that `aHash.set("a..b.", something)` had the same effect as
`aHash.set("a.b", something)`, i.e. a path with the two sub-keys `a` and `b`,
whereas in Karabo 2.2.4 the path of the former actually differs and has four
sub-keys of which two are empty keys.
