..
  Copyright (C) European XFEL GmbH Schenefeld. All rights reserved.


**************************
What's New in Karabo 3.0.0
**************************

Release date is **July**.

All notable changes are until **3.0.0rc3**


Major Highlights of This Release
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


- Introduction of a new Karabo broker protocol that leverages modern messaging features (e.g., headers) and enables splitting of broadcast messages
- Refactored project database to use MySQL
- Refactored configuration database to use SQLite
- Reauthentication support added in the ``GuiServer`` device
- Pipelines (Output Channel) validate via Schema definition if provided
- Python integration test framework based on Contexts (AsyncServerContext, ServerContext)

To ease the transition, the dependency stack remains largely unchanged compared to Karabo 2.21.X:

- C++20 standard
- Python 3.12


Enhancements to `Bound Hash`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``Bound Hash`` now offers improved functionality and alignment with the middlelayer Hash:

- ``Hash.update`` method added (similar to Python's ``dict.update``)
- ``Hash.flat_iterall`` method introduced, similar to MDL
- Support for ellipsis functionality as in MDL, e.g., ``*attrs = Hash[key, ...]``
- The initializer now supports an arbitrary number of arguments and dictionary input

KaraboGUI Updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Curve Options: Customize pen colors and legend names for each curve in VectorGraph and TrendGraph
- ImageWidget: Option to permanently store color level settings
- New Configurator: Includes ``NORMAL`` and ``EXPERT`` modes
- ToolTip Sticker Widget to provide helping information on the scene

- Karabo Projects:
  - More convenience in adding device servers in the GUI
  - Lazy Project Loading: Now also scenes are loaded lazily
  - Search dialog now offers device, macro and servers as different option


Breaking Changes
++++++++++++++++

- Boost FSM Removal (C++/Bound): The finite state machine concept has been removed from Karabo.
- Removal of device properties:

  - `_deviceId_`
  - `_serverId_`
  - `visibility`

- Slot Changes:

  - Removal of Slot ``slotGetOutputChannelInformationFromHash``, use ``slotGetOutputChannelInformation`` which takes a `Hash` as input.
  - Removal of slot `slotUpdateSchemaAttributes` (see below)
  - `slotPing` does not take anymore the `track` boolean
  - `slotPing` not used for topology discovery anymore, added `slotDiscover`

- Signal Changes:

  - Removal of third party subscriptions via the signal slot protocol (broker)
  - Removal of signalStateChanged
  - `slotFunctions` information not anymore present in headers by default.

- Bound: Renaming of the inner device properties `self.deviceid`, `self.serverid` and `self.classid` to `self.deviceId`, `self.serverId` and `self.classId`, respectively.
- Runtime Attributes Removed: The concept of runtime attributes has been completely eliminated. For example, `slotUpdateSchemaAttributes` is no longer available.
- Removed Attributes:

  - `daqPolicy`
  - `skipValidation`
  - `rollingWindowStatistics`
  - `leafType`
  - `allowedActions`
  - `absoluteError`
  - `relativeError`
  - All alarm-related attributes such as `alarmLow`, `alarmHigh`, `needsAck`, etc.

- Pipeline Syntax Change: The `@` separator is no longer supported in pipeline channel declarations; use `:` as before.
- Middlelayer Functions Removed: Functions such as `linspace`, `dot`, and `cross` in `middlelayer.numeric` have been removed.
- Visibility Features Removed: All visibility features (Configurator, Topology, ikarabo) and the `visibility` property have been removed.

- Element and Enum Removals or Changes:

  - Removed `Elements Choice Of Node` and `List Of Node`
  - Removed `Image Element` properties `dimScales` and `dimTypes`
  - Removed support for several Encoding Enum types (TIFF, BMP, PNG, etc.)
  - Removed `leafType` Enum
  - Removed `DimensionType` Enum
  - Removed `daqDataType` `PULSEMASTER` and `TRAINMASTER` Enum.
  - Removed `PATH_ELEMENT`; use `STRING_ELEMENT` instead.
  - Removal of archivePolicy attriute options. Only `EVERY_EVENT` and `NO_ARCHIVING` remain.
  - `EncodingType` (MDL) has been renamed to `Encoding`.
  - Removed `AccessLevel.USER` and `AccessLevel.ADMIN` levels. Use `OPERATOR` and `EXPERT` instead.

- Class Changes:

  - `Trainstamp` (C++/Bound) has been renamed; use `TimeId`.
  - `Worker` class (C++) has been removed.
  - `QueueWorker` class (C++/Bound) has been removed.

- Global Device Server Changes:

  - `scanPlugins` variable has been removed from all device servers.
  - `autostart` property and related functionality (C++/Bound) have been removed. Use `init` with JSON syntax instead.
  - Logging: Logging levels in C++/Bound have been harmonized with MDL. Use `log.level` instead of `Logger.priority`.
  - MDL Device server cannot start and supervise bound device classes anymore

- GUI Changes:

  - The attributes follow now the Karabo naming (camelCase) convention. ( display_type -> displayType)
  - Only a single `default` configuration can be used in a project device. Now more configurations can be added.
  - Removal of Printer Option from every panel

- ProjectManager Refactor:

  - All slots now operate with Hash input and output.
  - `slotBeginUserSession` and `slotEndUserSession` have been removed.
  - Token specification is no longer required.

- Controller Model Removals:

  - `ComboBoxModel` -> Use `EditableComboBoxModel` without `klass`
  - `SliderModel` -> Use `TickSliderModel`
  - `VacuumWidgetModel` -> Karabo 1
  - `DisplayImageElementModel` -> Use `ImageGraphModel`
  - `DisplayImageModel` -> Use `ImageGraphModel`
  - `WebcamImageModel` -> Use `WebCamGraphModel`
  - `FileInModel` -> Use `DisplayLabelModel`
  - `FileOutModel` -> Use `DisplayLabelModel`
  - `DirectoryModel` -> Use `DisplayLabelModel`
  - `XYPlotModel` -> Use `ScatterGraphModel`
  - `MultiCurvePlotModel` -> Use `MultiCurveGraphModel`
  - `DisplayPlotModel` -> Use `VectorGraphModel`
  - `DisplayTrendlineModel` -> Use `TrendGraphModel`
  - `LinePlotModel` -> Was a Ghost model
  - `XYVectorModel` -> Use `VectorXYGraphModel`


Change of Behavior
++++++++++++++++++

- `State` and `AlarmCondition` are now implemented as `StrEnum`.
- All other enums previously based on integers are now implemented as `IntEnum`.

- MDL:

  - `Hash.paths()` now defaults to showing only leaf elements.
  - DeviceNode: The `timeout` argument has been removed, as it was previously ignored.
  - MDL Configuration Singleton not attached to event loop anymore. This enables scripting among different broker topics with macros.

- Timestamps: All backend timestamps (Influx, Config, Project) are now defined as UTC.
- Terminology Change: "Configuration From Name" has been renamed to "Init Configuration" to better reflect its purpose.

- ConfigDB:

  - **Init Configurations are now equivalent to project configurations (only class schema properties, only changes from default).**
  - Configurations are stored as XML-encoded Hash objects.

- Bound: The `Worker` class has been streamlined to cover only the common use cases (single-shot and standard timeout).
- Bound: Legacy logging still in place, but use more pythonic logger syntax, e.g. `self.logger.info`, `self.logger.debug`, ...
- ProjectDB: Local database storage has changed from a file to SQLite.
- Device Repository: The default namespace for installing devices is now `karaboDevices3`.


All API
=======

Dependency Updates
++++++++++++++++++

- `pytest_asyncio` has been updated to 1.0.0. For a period until Winter 2026, device repositories making use of the central CI
  can specify USE_LEGACY_PYTEST = "true" to use old behavior (pytest 0.21.X). After that, the legacy behavior changes its default.
- GUI: pyqtgraph update to 0.13.7
- C++: Boost upgraded to 1.88.0


Bug Fixes
++++++++++

- *(No Category)* Fix append schema log message ([1e0baa3](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1e0baa35f3458fbab3cd6bc543abcc156bf8d5d9))
- *(All)* Tables don't send a schema attribute in the Configuration ([709b0d1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/709b0d1bd4b956e7df33212a17e692304eab57a3))
- *(Bound)* Clean-up after FSM removal ([4fe5841](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/4fe5841b00317baf618be2b389a77980bfa37136))
- *(Bound)* Bail out if schema assembly fails ([0a1e5db](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0a1e5db47ad415f19e8269a33b72ac0a429befa4))
- *(Bound)* Return reference to HashAttributes while looping via 'iterall' ([9276d05](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9276d05062908e9c802892052ff3978bc54dc770))
- *(Bound)* Enable lock test in deviceclient test ([87bae01](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/87bae018fa0eafea0cae389bddfe1dc18a0f3946))
- *(Bound test)* Use success boolean of slotUpdateSchemaAttributes reply Hash ([d5fb671](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d5fb6711872cd578bef89cd993b19f56d7a0b2e6))
- *(Bound test)* Fix flaky binding test by adding a sleep ([889cf08](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/889cf08d378aac21c47c5a01d003eb9f50680bcd))
- *(C++)* Signal did update msg header that was in flight for in-process shortcut ([ea5a6a9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ea5a6a9347ff43e5dec6efb2d18aaa2107f943c8))
- *(C++)* Package template makes use of DeviceClient::MakeShared ([1845dc4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1845dc4a1b514cd6a820994f2eb15e72aa9e4184))
- *(C++)* Refuse too big messages sent to AMQP broker ([9f14a0d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9f14a0d10aebd2b24e9292fddef36412060038d3))
- *(C++)* Set typename definition for orderedmap ([c34bf28](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c34bf28e6eda2070c4d0825eed8f8d8681e6a276))
- *(C++)* Do not tolerate '@' as separator between deviceId and outputChannelId ([2287f2c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2287f2cf892ef9f725f5332d7139c7fc831c11fa))
- *(C++)* Deserialisation should respect Hash keys that contain the default separator ([3fe7ecd](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3fe7ecdf49ad8a114240e19155d434bc8bbffeab))
- *(C++)* Async signal disconnection often subscribed to (instead of unsubscribed from) broker ([06aaa37](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/06aaa379586b08c0fbfdc621bdc44fda4d8b25bf))
- *(C++)* Follow up refactored slotPing in client in case of unexpected instanceUpdated ([44a3e64](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/44a3e64ed22b49c0b695698235a51266da35c015))
- *(C++ test)* Make testSharedReceiversSelector reliable ([2f853df](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2f853df89b17d02ceb2b2cc7b9f1f1257f0eeb79))
- *(C++ test)* Amqp test waits until connection use_count reaches one ([ca8339d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ca8339db706b1c24bac0a8a17f4a8aa852970ce7))
- *(C++/Bound)* Do not base64 encode [un]signed char, only char - and binding follow-up ([d020f57](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d020f57801a30c723820d65523b863f015994c5e))
- *(C++/Bound)* Throw exception if call slot with not matched number of parameters ([f6b227b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f6b227b02c91ba0976fd536c01e77789d2297f41))
- *(GUI)* Disable 'Store online configuration' menu-item ([1fbfac0](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1fbfac0df442c4bbe26be03fc24ab4e9f73d7975))
- *(GUI)* Evaluate Expression : String conversion of numpy float ([792693d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/792693d576f925bbca627020715d683e930002b4))
- *(GUI)* Slot decorate the method ([c488462](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c4884621397fd7cc6aa0d5a293547360c240a6bf))
- *(GUI)* Start QApplication before the test ([8ef62dd](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8ef62ddfd7caec6d043afae7e03208fc9954dc11))
- *(GUI)* Fix icon command setting enabled to correct widget ([242e844](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/242e84483349236bee216f3d952746c6d74219b6))
- *(GUI)* Enhance big data synchronization in the manager ([0697295](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0697295ee21fa8bcb4e99ef042a4b0987a0e0d77))
- *(GUI)* Sort by version in the Updater Dialog ([a8d3478](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a8d34787be49aab9955ac53420146d31aa578324))
- *(GUI)* Fix the slider fetch in detector graph ([518c49d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/518c49d189a4d317ad6b519939b12ed5b527bb64))
- *(GUI)* Logbook dialog-protection against empty topic. ([b4ed8f1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b4ed8f1f3e91b7d92c8d8511b545f97b98d1206b))
- *(GUI)* Fix the access level lookup for running macros. Debug cannot be run with OBSERVER ([0d7349e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0d7349eec81449f75f4bebb97a884eef8c43cf7c))
- *(GUI)* Curve Options: update data points,if they are displayed. ([2b791c0](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2b791c0dc8c390fbbf0460b2aba307e3b5ea86f4))
- *(GUI)* Align response expectation of listProjectsWithDevice to new interface ([b74e6f7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b74e6f72a8af0c428c4546b4f8f203b64875dc0a))
- *(GUI)* Show question dialog at mouse cursor ([4d19d79](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/4d19d79713e2f8c078672781678043c5c11021d0))
- *(GUI)* Fix project cache loading for trashed projects ([7876ca8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7876ca8ecfc293124469a267f2e1def603390c50))
- *(GUI)* Fix tooltip of project items, format date correctly ([bfb0ace](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/bfb0acef81989015b49963c05257a935a312fb08))
- *(GUI)* Display the Service Manager after reconnecting to a topic ([264d8d3](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/264d8d3fdbd64370a5c5cb04495a79f359c54d71))
- *(GUI)* Call super destroy correctly from widgets ([f54648b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f54648b12ebe8d36b2c4b9d14775929d93a51a5a))
- *(MDL)* Align access level of logger node ([e06306b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e06306b66efda2c4d698cc59927aff9365389fcf))
- *(MDL)* Fix array comparison in is_equal function and provide more tests ([a38118c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a38118cebea4792c58822816048de0f02ad064c7))
- *(MDL)* Collect in flaky test for connectDevice ([e4734ea](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e4734ea8ca0cbab4ae9f6cace566dac0c230fe9d))
- *(MDL)* Don't skip delete test in cli ([ef27014](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ef270148297f818a8bef1b5dff380b67cfb84a29))
- *(MDL)* Enhance the heartbeat mixin when a server goes down, also trigger devices from proxies ([5267677](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/5267677141a81efd0dd0cf08888d498b0eae4d40))
- *(ProjectDB)* Fix the date stamping of modifications of instances in the project ([93d52eb](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/93d52eb71dbd90f0ae5290ae440d6a148aca5e2c))
- *(ProjectDB)* Refresh are coroutines ([3eeb04f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3eeb04f8431066981d7f649c753f534d046316d0))
- *(ProjectDB)* Trash and untrash projects properly ([cc72dba](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/cc72dba45fcb536780078fb1d129fec8d45f7ad4))
- *(ProjectDB)* A little fixes and alignments in project manager ([84ccf2f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/84ccf2f02dd24f54e30889cebf72d837158a7c93))
- *(ProjectDB)* Migration to async interface needs coroutine to delete items ([0d29bfd](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0d29bfdcb5729e823867cb4fe21b7dc121d7b47c))
- *(ProjectDB)* Enhance and fix algorithm to find devices in projectDB. Don't consider trashed projects ([82de6ee](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/82de6ee2aa65c3ede25b17eef85bae9eb914c8be))
- *(No Category)* Fix the karabo list command ([72fb16c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/72fb16c4f5e633deb96fde06218e5a149e5c1d40))
- *(No Category)* Fix conda mirror by using local conda channel as last channel in priority ([ad15f02](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ad15f0230555f2fa22d779afee26b231e7383595))
- *(No Category)* Add event_loop fixture back to MDL ([3016236](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/30162363520b8041c643e62deffd981d166981e0))
- *(No Category)* Allow broken device installation to proceed with -f option and remove non git directory ([a8f9025](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a8f90251a9da930cc0576390c45499736b92a843))
- *(No Category)* Change open source email in setup files ([70019ff](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/70019ff36ee2088eeea1b4ccd4f2e009f6c640b8))
- *(No Category)* Linting of public_docs ([82a381d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/82a381df415de038d07d78ffa128960eff4d2fc6))
- *(No Category)* Snowballstemmer pin dependency ([ac8c57f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ac8c57fa4857cb25e2f4fadd6d38f44a57e065ee))
- *(No Category)* Fix Integration tests for pipeline processing ([56509f6](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/56509f6146f7a3d11952af955893b5c89b4417a6))
- *(No Category)* Realign Worker arguments, timeout comes before single shot ([9163c99](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9163c99f0e78bdede01fcd2c03640159934ce734))
- *(No Category)* Fix integration signal slot ordering test after new connect signature ([25a053e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/25a053e3e161cea7b9652b987395ed147c926368))
- *(No Category)* Fix the brokerrates script tool after refactoring ([a4e47ae](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a4e47ae61b7a80e538db6860f434333e6332065c))
- *(Common)* Full support of the new ImageData encodings ([f68e0f5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f68e0f54878cfe4fde39026d0e077f3957ffce95))
- *(MDL)* Remove deprecated unary_function ([ae90555](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ae9055589e10a5fd702b89bf1a025d8097067027))


Features
++++++++

- *(GUI)* Do allow to set log values on X axis ([26a3e9b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/26a3e9b18ff0d54711bc9457f140612a2dffaaa4))
- *(Bound)* Add 'items' to Hash binding ([d317d3c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d317d3c4f9fa29ab6ecc0c3b9ad6ca1493b060e4))
- *(Bound)* ServerContext has verbose option ([6436880](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6436880f02540ae6426e38b93e6eac15aa2a0d9d))
- *(Bound)* Add SignalSlotable.asynConnect and ...asyncDisconnect ([5f4c58e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/5f4c58eefa990c0e302eeccdf09834f4d14960b3))
- *(Bound)* Provide pythonic logging api ([f507d83](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f507d836b3b9282e38b1914fd5f2b7d58eb7e391))
- *(Bound)* Validate output channel schema ([ad806ab](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ad806ab7ac23812e05bee2effa5c929cac483a39))
- *(C++)* Provide helper for migration to Karabo 3 (forward port to master) ([264a523](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/264a523ad9030e84fb116eda568644e81ecea55d))
- *(C++)* Add device version to log file ([465dd2f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/465dd2fcfd440f8d85b9f6d3a8955382f0bccf1e))
- *(C++)* Mention slot caller in log if slot call failed ([e60bae4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e60bae4b598c87e47a33bca4249e86c54a8aa923))
- *(C++)* Useful new functionality for Hash ([7c5bd61](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7c5bd617b2efc598116945b084ea96c481b92d46))
- *(C++)* Option to not catch exceptions in event loop ([061daf3](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/061daf30257bc7e5aa0770f06d28917e4c590444))
- *(C++)* More info in cast exception message ([09cde15](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/09cde15d5b6f67881c613653674f4f47ffd3aa03))
- *(C++)* Hash::merge treats vector<Hash> always as atomic (as for tables) - breaking change ([c67ef89](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c67ef897348cd18a8062df9006a639e70a12c308))
- *(C++)* Add OutputChannel under node to PropertyTest device ([20519ae](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/20519ae9ffba9446fcf7b2e06c4304691a92a1ce))
- *(C++)* Mention sender for failing slot call ([7abf5fe](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7abf5fe4a605a12851935853a63c082485c21a26))
- *(C++)* Validate output channel schema ([950eb5c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/950eb5cf06749ab10fcbf8431de5f539338ec8fc))
- *(C++)* Validate NDArray shape and type against schema ([02704bf](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/02704bffbface4a18df2badd56916172aa0cb345))
- *(C++)* New "strict" validation mode fully implemented ([38a4950](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/38a495052fd90d1c6c72eb8dc86b9bab2746385a))
- *(ConfigDB)* Provide a last_loaded parameter for the configurations ([3ff05c4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3ff05c4fe53351e498144e920862c44617653661))
- *(ConfigDB)* Provide option to delete a configuration from the database ([2326714](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/23267145193da663b4344305b5f3b9c57d974d37))
- *(ConfigDB)* Implement a strict ConfigurationMode for filtering configurations ([13c5227](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/13c52271377845065bf32b5e9d7eebb0276f3fe4))
- *(DEPS)* Make lttbc directly compatible for numpy 2.X ([f2bf64e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f2bf64e307fc107bfa1a7c629be3fcab71f888a7))
- *(DEPS)* Upgrade to boost-1.88.0 ([37b5007](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/37b5007ff564b4ab391c0fdd03a2663b08e38f96))
- *(Deps)* Add aiomysql as framework dependency ([7f04b88](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7f04b8854575d4d8f53d8f51c454e3ce83b1f5b9))
- *(GUI)* Prevent saving project to Karabo2 ([a727288](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a727288b03d373aa4b60bd93ad868102b66d66e6))
- *(GUI)* We can compare device configurations with clone devices, add test ([abcd3a5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/abcd3a52d4042e30fe5dd953d73a5254eb550520))
- *(GUI)* Configuration Panel has Normal and Expert mode ([02fc53c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/02fc53c8391b6deaa2b7548761ae6c609b381d6d))
- *(GUI)* Maintain property selection on mode swap ([8e59f59](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8e59f5983e2b47fc3cc0582795880f8d5d46a83e))
- *(GUI)* Allow to arrange servers in the project ([15a59b2](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/15a59b295c9668abb1c7f97a2c232106ed2bb305))
- *(GUI)* Conveniently add a device server to a project ([50bae3e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/50bae3eaa9eca74921b89c5946d54e1430f58310))
- *(GUI)* Show access level tooltip in new Configurator ([3ed18cf](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3ed18cf73bc1ad1801e05dce5cc2e25508067071))
- *(GUI)* Hide the legend in the plot ([45aee08](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/45aee08c57ba5be6a0688e2c07641cc0b268b18f))
- *(GUI)* Provide offline information for Alarm Widget. Remove multiple proxies ([ef71ba2](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ef71ba2f34bf660a72cd3193af318fa30c3290ad))
- *(GUI)* Provide Plot Curve Options ([cbdead5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/cbdead52f27219b221f2683074c98225265b8e41))
- *(GUI)* Enable to delete a configuration from the GUI ([0f6dd40](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0f6dd404c601fd5de36d4004d17da0707effe8f7))
- *(GUI)* Provide item type when reading from project DB ([6fdd12d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6fdd12d57678c03c0c735bd1485c375ef7dd17de))
- *(GUI)* Allow to relogin from client side ([8dbc552](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8dbc552429e6f385b98bae2de87521b7c224a74d))
- *(GUI)* Forward information from clients about their actions ([431d466](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/431d466f8dd9c60d58452956439d36d8d1b2efeb))
- *(GUI)* Provide visibility of end of session and only allow new session ([3944b32](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3944b32515715ba17c30ed444007e2edace247db))
- *(GUI)* UserSessionDialog closes on out of session notice and logout.... ([f09e933](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f09e933ac72915ec9663bda0c7eeb4a736346572))
- *(GUI)* Enable to change classId of project device ([9eb6b14](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9eb6b14b5198dd18115f997017cfa21d34d14000))
- *(GUI)* Image Widgets - remember color levels ([fb32d88](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/fb32d88c0189f5f8edaf5f9a9dfdc08dd0db892d))
- *(GUI)* Indicate unattached scene panels better, show instance icon ([24b0cc6](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/24b0cc63a6cdd5111fbf37b5c67e76aff9284922))
- *(GUI)* Provide a visible message box when gui server terminates the session ([3d2dba2](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3d2dba2615556e547f4371067abb75fff1f9e199))
- *(GUI)* Delete button in 'Config From Name' dialog. ([971359d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/971359d1ae17df352f5292f733c2a8ad6856f98f))
- *(GUI)* When a newer guiextensions available broadcast on GUI startup ([2c747b8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2c747b895eb57b088940387424b486a5825a75b0))
- *(GUI)* UI changes in Temp Session dialog. ([ef3d4e4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ef3d4e45f5540f490e47a1eec06dc3f019ca9a06))
- *(GUI)* Login Dialog - connect to the server frequently. ([383b39e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/383b39e94d59e778c1b19fc6397bda20e2efcc94))
- *(GUI)* Logbook Dialog : Differentiate logbooks ([f86d34e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f86d34e17808a922ebd674416b29513f56f95c9c))
- *(GUI)* Load Project With Item Dialog to search for all items ([e07e318](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e07e3180f444fe502684d2943574d1f7310ec134))
- *(GUI)* Change tab order for login dialog: host -> tab -> port ([a82678d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a82678d6fb40fa957f2d6f448c0b75e58e65a816))
- *(GUI)* Align configuration from name validation to new protocol ([4d687b5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/4d687b5b4f7cff6d28fbf9d58da322f87e17e06e))
- *(GUI)* Provide and make use of lazy scene loading ([8d7ef63](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8d7ef63b35cae4b517b0b82a121bfd704c46f441))
- *(GUI)* Popup Sticker widget ([241c379](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/241c3796130172728e16f2829f41fd1bc631934f))
- *(GUI)* Custom icon from popup button ([92c216e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/92c216e9594b525cbc7201d8c71932a12330e040))
- *(MDL)* Provide custom overwrite possibilties ([c4456e4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c4456e4f78154bc5a4cdcb6ec6df75c64cfacde4))
- *(MDL)* Implement a connector class for a connection singleton ([9c559c9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9c559c94ff5016b469532aefb584483f9a956d21))
- *(MDL)* Extend tests for injection with values ([895a642](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/895a6424100d306a629ff4156169811dc5acefee))
- *(MDL)* Connector singleton can be configured with Broker url and topic details ([89a3cbb](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/89a3cbb2e50d535b95fe261649d26a67f629c91e))
- *(MDL)* Enable to run macros from commandline more convenienly ([aca4b52](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/aca4b52611113973dfaf7b0124fb80fca593d7c7))
- *(MDL)* Provide verbosity option for AsyncServerContext ([0230aa4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0230aa488d602df5e5379a12e289edd45388e7ff))
- *(MDL)* Make Enums StrEnums or IntEnums ([a389ba8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a389ba8a93bc7c18d11b030785e48214e2980be7))
- *(MDL)* Set tcp keep alive on input channels ([2af985f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2af985fe4c7fcedffb8727a4499f50cdafda7ee0))
- *(MDL)* Provide type annotations in broker.py ([e125617](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e12561737b4a8b5e6321dd25452b51f8753fcdf3))
- *(MDL)* Provide public signal slotable property ([982ee60](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/982ee60c90be970d54e5f3c272749c042afbd136))
- *(MDL)* Provide getOutputChannelInfo in CLI and util function ([bd7419b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/bd7419be73009575fa611ca436211a28c8e8ff75))
- *(MDL)* Enable to set connector parameters after it has been created ([f1c3c07](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f1c3c07a8bf790729832f78be2b5bffc40355793))
- *(MDL)* Provide broadcast configurable option, integration tests and fix a test ([1b9524f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1b9524f04f9cc29b477ff1f71a1b94065e7b9dd5))
- *(MDL)* Upgrade pytest asyncio and align testing ([41eea99](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/41eea99e4ae82732cbee318c4c44b6119cc6b8ac))
- *(MDL)* Provide NDArray shape validation ([91ac9b0](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/91ac9b0ef924579338022f2f6d4da0239b9e4863))
- *(ProjectDB)* Run asynchronous in project DB' ([98a2900](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/98a29008ee0c23ea45ce0134ad48e99d2d3dde58))
- *(ProjectDB)* Provide local project database ([5063898](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/50638987e0f54e8bb2385544c903a3084255adce))
- *(ProjectDB)* Make find device by name incasesensitive and provide a test ([6694119](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/66941196171ba85d6dd70b560ebef870a473268c))
- *(ProjectDB)* Provide find servers in projects and harmonize ([cfbe11c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/cfbe11cab2d82c3d5a87d76c1b3bd92d243a9e3d))
- *(ProjectDB)* Extend tests, fix several bugs, rename projectname to project_name and provide a domain based device topology ([2a15f7a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2a15f7a0cee85522aec6b8f8c4cfb503afd8a0b8))
- *(ProjectDB)* Provide version handshake for saving ([0c8fd47](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0c8fd47b76bdba9b29e5dbec8b0222000f8aff2e))
- *(ProjectDB)* Only store values that are different from default in strict mode ([1794b91](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1794b914bdccf454568c18b57d9923df6671689f))
- *(ProjectManager)* Find macros in projects ([7a824c7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7a824c7e396a66bfc9eaf34fcc4ff4419d7da469))
- *(deps)* Add aiosql to the dependencies ([6d6b011](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6d6b01154b08fe7f587c3c3f36198383cc87f8f7))
- *(tests)* Align archivePolicy test ([a29e85d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a29e85d29020a69bc3337381c3dcede94dae7601))
- *(ConfigDB)* Config DB - Simplify and adjust the backbone ([9c83e89](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9c83e89a88a40b81aeaa7fe42055b8e57c531b39))
- *(ConfigDB)* Provide migration script for configuration database ([001a2a4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/001a2a419b494c0133d35dc639d6a913fcc13808))
- *(Common)* Define a HASH_CLASS_ID common constant ([3e074c7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3e074c719fceac9f4715b4c20089349bc359b348))
- *(Common)* Provide a conftest for integration tests ([ab5249d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ab5249da56c3544eed6de80a2d275c0a3d7b0df8))
- *(Common)* Add revolutions per minute as Unit to the framework ([0798e2b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0798e2b6b19eca3caed86be4b4defc7f167cce0c))
- *(Bound)* Add a template test for bound devices ([00bbfc2](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/00bbfc2876d4b01a2bed299eb7b399346c60ddca))
- *(C++)* More convenient rethrow, IOException with details ([6ba8bef](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6ba8befb7f6cd18c18b43b3992c9299c5029aff3))
- *(GUI)* Update pyqtgraph to 0.13.7 ([952aef9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/952aef946356c564d67d1a552344c3e20a3e9044))


Performance
+++++++++++

- *(Bound)* Try to speed-up PythonDevice.get ([f385dd8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f385dd89ce3cbca7f61dbe56efa6a71b92e9b26d))
- *(MDL)* Increase table build value performance ([b40c31b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b40c31b92900b2613ecb4f41e1655b2a2feaae6e))


Refactor
++++++++

- *(Bound)* Implement iterall and update in bound python ([9fee1d1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9fee1d149fd18af17a909fcc6668402f09085ce4))
- *(Bound)* Add 'HashAttributes'to assign/overwrite attributes API in new syntax ([418b75c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/418b75c7a5fe607d01cba137a8897feb22f86543))
- *(Bound)* Remove unused device runner ([9f6810b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9f6810bda8f4df1398cbccb0fac0007785ed56af))
- *(Bound)* Remove run a single server function ([6591d08](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6591d08b376403e81fd3c094ec68e84f2db00aa5))
- *(Bound)* Remove custom launcher ([3b1bbd4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3b1bbd43bd431d65aaceb120a7de37e532fc0e2d))
- *(Bound)* Shrink namespace from units and metricprefix, only expose Enum ([51cc501](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/51cc501bd781a9ea99ceac6f16feb60795987a6c))
- *(Bound)* Simplify Worker ([e037a2e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e037a2eb47708e558a8cff12586084639df46a64))
- *(Bound)* Remove launchPythonDevice from public namespace ([230c386](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/230c386c69cfa3f2602613b02aa616a95b7abfcd))
- *(Bound)* Remove deprecated functionality for schema and config ([8ea6fb8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8ea6fb8d041db605ab4ee26208c4a8f7db139440))
- *(Bound)* Change signalslot naming in device server ([8905049](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/89050496f4848255bd2c1d28040fec0a9010599a))
- *(Bound)* Remove FSM remnant and simplify execute ([5b87af8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/5b87af8f10a900da7f8ee664caa0dc90fb3531e2))
- *(Bound)* Greatly simplify Runner class ([1116eca](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1116eca8cba5bd7f3a862bc3a81355bcd7fc6b63))
- *(Bound/C++)* Remove daqPolicy ([459a390](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/459a390aff27e00af54a27d4f0f72aec651ed3e1))
- *(Bound/C++)* Remove allowedActions ([d172d08](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d172d0896b751bf0c77f68ad61e5327b63f341de))
- *(Bound/C++)* Remove dimScales and dimTypes from ImageData ([655fea7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/655fea70049cb4c5029901e9b9fdd702aeefaec0))
- *(Bound/MDL)* Rename signalslotable property ([c575ee5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c575ee5e78e391693cba987c1eb3f9ecc43a0b4e))
- *(C++)* First heartbeat comes at full heartbeat interval ([0831a73](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0831a734e168750132b5f7c2ce56fe971fa48a18))
- *(C++)* Remove unused stuff from karabo/io ([84c712a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/84c712ace3425cb5c35e555d77313bff24b4d9ce))
- *(C++)* Minor include cleaning inside util ([4e5a98d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/4e5a98d6f8396689a705f7b54b208958b1cd8eb2))
- *(C++)* Avoid a copy of 2 * 8 bytes of Epochstamp ([88963e8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/88963e836963f0cb353674ea671c2e40f66ebfd5))
- *(C++)* If printing Hash, use only placeholders for any contained Schema ([904ebef](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/904ebefee949c8a53c86fd2c8262a97776f18091))
- *(C++)* Clean-up after FSM removal ([ed0a3a9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ed0a3a946dfbb7f0038cfc63cbfbc1d1ec42d26e))
- *(C++)* Remove homebrew stacktrace ([965ecaa](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/965ecaa05f3266c569b7803429de8636f833acb1))
- *(C++)* Split NDArrayElement from NDArray (=> no use of Schema in NDArray) ([3f4d2c4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3f4d2c4e17b09ac9d9698e8ccb6e093df685edf3))
- *(C++)* Remove ListOfNodes from DeviceServer's autoStart implementation ([bc2c3be](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/bc2c3be20170ab53ccb1f5a9a5d575cdf10a285d))
- *(C++)* No logging in io package, better throw ([c2fdbc1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c2fdbc1efa8e546bcecc937e8c697aa1cb3d124e))
- *(C++)* Moved part of 'util' directory/namespace to new 'data' ([97b1895](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/97b1895d08cc9176a51da6b3d20cf460fc9738b9))
- *(C++)* Migrate tests of classes migrated to 'data' before ([ad3e8da](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ad3e8da27c300ed844d21208048b772eaed89f2e))
- *(C++)* Migrate `io` directory into` karabo/data` ([08efafc](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/08efafcbbc6b8e43bb00b8e6fd1695e1def3f421))
- *(C++)* Migrate io tests ([e5f96ee](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e5f96ee1824e6085fcc5425be438f49eaf782df0))
- *(C++)* Remove unused server flag 'scanPlugins' ([e7441ef](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e7441ef88feac604703b25488b01632a257f9273))
- *(C++)* Remove 2nd data log reader per logger server ([2dc9727](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2dc97278f3b70c56820bd76bbbfc4ea117dbc3c4))
- *(C++)* Remove intermediate BaseDevice ([ac5741b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ac5741b1c2b167b72de30f42a973b71423d7ac68))
- *(C++)* Remove "visibility" from instanceInfo (also "visibilities" for server) ([7c5ac7f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7c5ac7f27243ace5356ce6b238d7a96810faa81f))
- *(C++)* Multi asyncConnect without need for data member ([ae2e9e4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ae2e9e4f785965face6d0f6f6fa8c7525fcfd0df))
- *(C++)* Remove deprecated interface and unused flag from OutputChannel::write(..) ([fbb8761](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/fbb8761dafaae1ee063188a698e526945f0e9404))
- *(C++)* Remove Worker class ([eb2226b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/eb2226b857d4caededc05eeff5f8990497c008a8))
- *(C++)* Clean C++ Slot from non-existing info like userId ([33cf443](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/33cf4438a7ff3ee1db37fe09a43ca8a8f75e18a4))
- *(C++)* Remove filtering from device client for accesslevel ([359c796](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/359c79626feb9a8680d0498f43979776d7c07518))
- *(C++)* Remove unused "distributionMode" parameters from OutputChannel ([dd7d6a4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/dd7d6a496188bbd1f9850620fff7f9e44007ef8f))
- *(C++)* Make Validator stateless ([3a33ae5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3a33ae570ece5177ed733d5e3d6ec7dd7581cbc1))
- *(C++, Bound)* Remove LIST_ELEMENT from Karabo Framework ([986e7f8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/986e7f811425a5393d33a7d014cfb823cb20cbc3))
- *(C++,Bound)* Remove CHOICE_ELEMENT ([16c4b07](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/16c4b07ca877bbb57f05e8680bd3fa4c2e75affe))
- *(C++,Bound,MDL)* Remove AccessLevel: USER->OPERATOR, ADMIN->EXPERT ([b12fad6](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b12fad6322f4d8bfe5028cb3dec6592f3a48e6fc))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove Fsm remnants from framework ([0543977](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0543977775b0099faf04ea1d0587d09e38a63424))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove runtime attributes and datalogging long test ([a59c9d5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a59c9d5f603b626d8fe7bbc1c166b073ea6da176))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove RollingWindow statistics ([270d457](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/270d45703e042aeccfb2158ae25e6edcda9f4365))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove alarm attributes, their schema funcs and runtimeupdates ([51391dd](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/51391dd30d8eb30c4d298509c606245cdbf90fd2))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove special 'system' signal ([e929f2d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e929f2d214525bff8748dd45d3309d5b4c8b5bce))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove min and max settings ([3e50b65](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3e50b65958b008b5c82fd76ea9378901e9b58b84))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove skipValidation ([f92ba6c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f92ba6cdbb1a9c06b4cfcd1e22d137555025d0ba))
- *(C++/Bound)* Support MDL style log.level=... in commandline ([ac2a7b2](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ac2a7b2d76c7fe3ea9b5fdc4ac2709eae1cba9bc))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove useless io event handler of OutputChannel ([dbe8880](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/dbe88801823af8817284825a8caa9de59b330439))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove unused lock shorthand feature and remove login logout from deviceclient ([cb645b7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/cb645b7cca88d621a578920b5db1f353db831609))
- *(C++/Bound)* Rename Trainstamp to TimeId and getTrainId to getTid ([588a53b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/588a53bfc4a1a45b3ce384d0256840d8ea18f2bc))
- *(CPP)* Migrate to scoped enum ([82b2728](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/82b2728f9e30a64ba088a9c568c6bf57c068fc14))
- *(ConfigDB)* Use XML encoded Hashes in the configuration DB ([b7b6b48](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b7b6b48f692bdf1d98b3e337de227507638b2b63))
- *(ConfigDB)* Rewrite to SQLModel and providing a Device Table relationship ([06f64f6](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/06f64f6f6994c597bcc95034ffb33358e503166b))
- *(ConfigDB)* Store configurations without attributes ([f8cc909](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f8cc9090a007d20045bf10cda32c47bfdaa87616))
- *(ConfigDB)* Remove dbHandle from config db ([0911b62](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0911b626149acfb9bb7f877515af9e3de74d64c5))
- *(ConfigDB)* Align AsyncSession with projectDb ([2d42053](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2d42053ad7cd9d830b4d419868be023d1cfeedd5))
- *(ConfigDB)* Align configuration db with project db sqlmodel functions ([a4ce700](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a4ce700ed1123dd416b5afcb215672cf9330fe46))
- *(ConfigDB)* Add serverId and classId to NamedDevices in configuration db ([de67c93](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/de67c9371df9498d1a77b3df31d1c966953cc780))
- *(ConfigDB)* FromName becomes Init to emphasize the purpose ([599122b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/599122bb223484720d4945291a086ebc83259509))
- *(ConfigDB)* Align slot call to delete an init configuration ([e2db31c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e2db31c188c79046877eab535bdafec69235a180))
- *(FW)* Remove signalStateChanged ([5a5d9b5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/5a5d9b59b245386ba8bfb4fd0b55cae045979713))
- *(FW)* Get rid of unused 3rd arg of slotPing ([08c8e95](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/08c8e957b0d685cc59152b013bd190440c28f97e))
- *(FW)* Remove interval arg from heartbeats ([b636276](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b6362763db70d27bd95c185ecfed289973ddd42f))
- *(FW)* Split slotPing into slotPing and slotDiscovery ([62b198f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/62b198f4a2453ab6d9bdefe0f88518189636f50a))
- *(FW)* Heartbeat as global slot ([6caeb32](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6caeb3262f387323c061da75ca9c21d9010867cd))
- *(FW)* Signals always go to broker (except C++ inner-process shortcut) ([c933165](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c9331658b4e4e8fd1ea434236758f7aadb191d65))
- *(FW)* New AMQP exchanges and routing keys, shrink message headers ([41ceed7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/41ceed754f6733f07fc118875725c5c9fd657d81))
- *(GUI)* Remove module from coverage testing ([8631b25](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8631b2521f38bc98b5e24207647b09b812d6131f))
- *(GUI)* Remove the printer option from the base panel ([2b42753](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2b4275323c0968bdb04eb3e83160410dd81085b1))
- *(GUI)* Remove remnant of LoN and CoN handling of bindings ([4c23955](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/4c2395588834366768f1dc9fa0eaee3945403e21))
- *(GUI)* Remove custom PlotItem ([5097587](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/5097587822e584c7d26bbe9c0a37960e3269c13c))
- *(GUI)* Don't consider visibilities when adding devices to servers in project ([ef68a02](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ef68a02ee9f3fcf89fa77cc881c33548ffbf6f59))
- *(GUI)* Remove all deprecated models, readers and writers ([b9ece7d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b9ece7df54c549dddc6a3d13d1de741c9e78450b))
- *(GUI)* Rename the binding attributes to their MDL equivalent ([1184640](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1184640db57dce999a9052c04febf75de57f578f))
- *(GUI)* Cleanup the curve options for type curve ([90a4f3a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/90a4f3a46a395337a1c3d7d8d3973031f53ce2bc))
- *(GUI)* Remove logging into project dbserver ([1b55178](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1b55178ee0ebfa2fe9301af1984a83909967bafb))
- *(GUI)* Remove KaraboDaemonManager synchronization ([6cbc57e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6cbc57e24efcece934066c76d7c22d9a0f893b2b))
- *(GUI)* Remove project search device button synchronization ([997e214](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/997e214cd203bc17931d457b83cc70026fb1cf6c))
- *(GUI)* Tune the run macro message box ([746bb97](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/746bb97f0a4bbb80cf34cddff13b2b76642c0c99))
- *(GUI)* Update project trashed interface for the GUI ([2d3a232](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2d3a23242ea81d9a5ff13f3b4650637acd0a7b09))
- *(GUI)* Align project explore dialog to new interface ([a358e51](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a358e51f1006d7accac862b5a5337b194b157b6e))
- *(GUI)* Remove alarm attributes from popup widget and align the size ([edcb13f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/edcb13f3474d7df07e77b273688fa95fbf50f898))
- *(GUI)* Remove device configuration visibility from the project ([bf33526](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/bf33526d9a5b4f4598d8404e736c802624bce74c))
- *(GUI)* Trashed is not compared by string but by boolean ([3230deb](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3230deb857232f093ab2226a9d2ee47f812afd14))
- *(GUI)* Align to new init configuration dialog ([5c41895](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/5c41895f08200f1893de44262b0e7db6d09b50ed))
- *(GUI)* Refactor the Project Config Dialog / Init Configuration Preview Dialog and clarify a few names ([707b2b7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/707b2b77b704cae1004dab69140c9fae4bded26d))
- *(GUI)* Allow servers with same serverId to be added to parent or... ([e46687f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e46687fae15f600b0ec573ffc8c301aa197fba38))
- *(GUI)* Search for project items when item type changes ([9168384](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/91683844a77f7664dd2b155eb144d235ba9f9280))
- *(GuiServer)* Declare info type for gui client debugging ([867ec8c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/867ec8c0877d62e3dd6adc30bf9e8b25d28ddfec))
- *(GuiServer)* Remove subscribeLogs ([561aeb1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/561aeb12c59b4b17b8cc4799d5c227671f073186))
- *(MDL)* Align tests to update pytest dependency chain ([258c7f7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/258c7f7ef4324a77ab206c8b6d3bac45895a9e67))
- *(MDL)* Only the macro server requires KaraboStream ([337849b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/337849bf1479d05220edca00d87f1200b60c58ad))
- *(MDL)* Make use of event_loop_policy fixture and update pytest asyncio ([65e4540](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/65e454023b24cff901e701f1b77dc1c04b90ea56))
- *(MDL)* Remove ChoiceOfNodes and ListOfNodes ([d848a7a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d848a7ad417fb02efc14bfc295f27341026814b7))
- *(MDL)* Remove visibility from MDL framework ([84ec0ee](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/84ec0ee828608cbbc74b248871849a863e428549))
- *(MDL)* Remove deprecated calls in timestamp utc calculations ([f2aa7a7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f2aa7a7682dadf545f5a8f4670f3e4138a719901))
- *(MDL)* Remove allowedActions ([df2299e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/df2299e9c9400a7fe949ba73150fbaca1878697b))
- *(MDL)* Remove runtime attributes ([3bcb64c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3bcb64ca917285a4d0ad242bfb5c5e4a423698ab))
- *(MDL)* Remove alarmAttributes from the descriptors ([ce8fa48](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ce8fa48e160f0a4f025d841351534a18f652b908))
- *(MDL)* Remove unitutil functions like linspace etc from middlelayer ([83c9f98](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/83c9f98f193e1c2f5348d2a85dc78d03a3de550d))
- *(MDL)* MDL Server can only start MDL devices ([cde80f6](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/cde80f6f1be26c53ec3b8b676d6246f20d728633))
- *(MDL)* Simplifiy topology update information ([e988c14](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e988c14f76ccf1ba1e233f4f8a6b42e47fb936b5))
- *(MDL)* Split schema from hash ([6293d88](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6293d889a2800637946aed04b7568cc56c5c8227))
- *(MDL)* Change Hash.paths default behavior to exclude full root to leaf paths ([f5eba56](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f5eba56a044147f8b60e13b402fee25384935950))
- *(MDL)* PropertyTestMDL becomes PropertyTest ([a790e07](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a790e0703c6a6af6bed87f4b94a7b0ef538918c6))
- *(MDL)* Remove complex properties, serialization, ALL ([877f564](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/877f564281b7b1362efd28aba4f38d766aec98b7))
- *(MDL)* Drop MDL support for Complex Descriptors and remove ufunc tests ([9c5d1d9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/9c5d1d9711a827702f5d9fa1aa2b1c2f042aef7c))
- *(MDL)* Remove slotGetOutputChannelInformationFromHash ([75f3430](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/75f343029467c5bfa57de8d973854eb2e4514e6e))
- *(MDL)* Remove the dunder all declarations in karabo native ([295bd9f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/295bd9fec5ef59b4fce8b082f069e5eb2de603f1))
- *(MDL)* Make use of caplog fixture ([c1f746e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c1f746e1cc69f328f02958cf278b73f470f4cee1))
- *(MDL)* Convert converter function tests to pytest ([b72bc76](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b72bc76d70ab64ed88e69d7fd075aed7469ca7a1))
- *(MDL)* Remove now unnecessary reconnects in proxy and timeserver ([ca20270](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ca202703cbb78ecbfaaded5875dea94fbb9730a8))
- *(MDL)* Slightly cleanup broker interface ([c9ad1b4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c9ad1b4dd7c41207e63d8884cac98670b436f35a))
- *(MDL)* Shrink image data, remove dimScales and dimTypes ([df57e76](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/df57e7635446e7b2e3fcec65664fc20d2a5de39a))
- *(MDL)* Refactor schema test to pytest ([d1dfed1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d1dfed163864f608431019235f1b7fd95f74ff3a))
- *(MDL)* Rename enum EncodingType to Encoding to align with C++/Bound ([16583f7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/16583f799d2bd76c5fd5e16540b7f989e6e86176))
- *(MDL)* Remove timeout from device node ([fcc304e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/fcc304e63ac2ecf475dea49465028a1740283463))
- *(MDL)* Use official programming way for QuantityValues ([4c3ae20](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/4c3ae201ce98b8a77ac54da3a18e929ac3701979))
- *(ProjectDB)* Remove entrypoint system and remove filedatabase ([84b17ed](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/84b17ed31ef3f9d448af65f134d38f681d972f0f))
- *(ProjectDB)* Move xml converter functionality to utils ([a46e826](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a46e82659b49bb55efe7349afbe8a7891cfae86c))
- *(ProjectDB)* Refactor project db emitter for less copies ([4f21dc7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/4f21dc7fbcbf55b57e6ad0548384d6260a095109))
- *(ProjectDB)* Continue cleanup on abtract interface for projcet DB ([8cfd038](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8cfd038335460f92dea97c280bce8b75861012ea))
- *(ProjectDB)* Async rewrite of project db interface ([4633895](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/463389542d120ae35f54688a00a909b5b18b0842))
- *(ProjectDB)* Remove DbHandle implementation ([3a285fd](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3a285fda497015505ae8439e81560f3cb6e1c51d))
- *(ProjectDB)* Cleanup abstract database ([65c7cdb](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/65c7cdb83e2fe227974989e91f5dfe7c1e2cd66f))
- *(ProjectDB)* More cleaning of project db interface ([02ea2e9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/02ea2e9e6868d04f8c2b3f5fd7cad3508222e868))
- *(ProjectDB)* No need to login for user session anymore ([3167e12](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3167e12c81f8b9f4bb5f5412f8b41bbd79856d97))
- *(ProjectDB)* Simplify project db manager protocol ([6b5c7f5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6b5c7f512e2a3d1b7eba4e3fa67e4b9afe2abf75))
- *(ProjectDB)* Cleanup project db testing utils for readability ([8cdb2c1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8cdb2c14f6620d5cf9f01e52bb050bf10b92ae11))
- *(ProjectDB)* Optimize reading of code in project db reader ([193e5c0](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/193e5c06359c1d1fea2bbcd054b195fef7bf434d))
- *(ProjectDB)* Update interface for trashing projects ([a0392a5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a0392a50433257a87f261c35fa8e043f6bb1274c))
- *(ProjectDB)* Factor out writer and reader, have a sqldatabase ([fb2fd09](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/fb2fd091e495285d13509e065fda0a5fdf51aef6))
- *(ProjectDB)* Make trashed a boolean towards the GUI ([ec9b4da](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ec9b4dad30e3f01ffec1b94821ecfc684d3bfb67))
- *(ProjectDB)* The external key for the timestamp is always date ([e66828a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e66828a4a04c71d593ce874418f8e9325eaf4e95))
- *(ProjectDB)* Remove orphan handling and optimize project loading response ([d5125a5](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d5125a5773879a2127ac9991f4d7dc12dbb4ef95))
- *(ProjectDB)* Refactor ProjectManager protocol ([8770ca1](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/8770ca10481c62a05c7926ebee93678ecba513a7))
- *(ProjectDB)* Remove signature check in project reading ([52e974b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/52e974b4491745aff9be2de1fcb225e89aa8e022))
- *(ProjectDB)* Align and cleanup the date representation in the project... ([20b7af8](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/20b7af830ca33349a2071013fe1edc9c354e20c9))
- *(ProjectDB)* Align and unify timestamp and datetime handling ([0811c16](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0811c16b7453a8e9073cc71fca5ed486c68b37ef))
- *(Test)* Refactor configuration manager cross test to pytest ([766b8da](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/766b8da9850a30cb7310dadb305257841b3177e0))
- *(Tests)* Use AsyncServerContext in integration cross tests ([f90439d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/f90439dc1015d3a1d4476809f1790bfe802a222f))
- *(test)* Timeout tuning and more output ([74ebb22](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/74ebb221353e24f0c95e9af938ebf27f68ce7b99))
- *(No Category)* Migration from Boost API to C++17 API...partly ([6dfed20](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6dfed2051576222474ff3c6c2aaf1cfca2bea462))
- *(No Category)* Get rid of conda api dependency for karabogui ([7522458](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7522458aa6014bec73cfae3bd4f62ee2b0bbb5e8))
- *(No Category)* MDL removes daqPolicy ([0ccffe4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/0ccffe4c90d1292883e7e87d51b998c3bf6fb082))
- *(No Category)* Remove stray remnants of references to karathon ([14b5919](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/14b5919aaae08b738ce4ebbf2c5b4b41e6713d0d))
- *(No Category)* Simplify saving of configurations in the config db ([d1d533a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d1d533a1cc3e76c833bc2d25f8bd94b087557f07))
- *(No Category)* Rename influxdb namespace ([57073cf](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/57073cfb646cc4ba65a25302ce9dad4feb9d758c))
- *(No Category)* Remove Alarm and Project Protocol from GuiServer, also remove... ([b088930](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b088930b22fd9b3e84aba28cf555da6004b99662))
- *(No Category)* Remove default visibility setting in C++ service in ([83a80c9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/83a80c9a2b310811bd9a12d62876f099c6b973f3))
- *(No Category)* Significantly decrease queue size on broker clients ([b0b85a6](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b0b85a6e79c4042989cd70fb7f157617b45eae31))
- *(No Category)* Remove hostname from header ([59d6b93](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/59d6b9370a9147dcc87d5f676bfb7c4b31a9c8d5))
- *(No Category)* Remove LeafType from Schema and attributes ([56c3096](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/56c30968b4f9b65759b86aa272b42f85d86c8c1f))
- *(No Category)* Remove alarm schema remnants and shrink alarmCondition Enum ([50c9f9e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/50c9f9eaf2fbb58f61d984b77fae7c52175d255a))
- *(No Category)* Refactor the signal connect test to pytest ([3cf4395](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3cf43954399a0b3d56062da97d1b8e224846facb))
- *(No Category)* Shrink archivePolicy to the used options ([2f29ef3](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2f29ef3e167513442399c46f697155eab59f4565))
- *(No Category)* Refactor NodeType enum and remove choice and list of nodes... ([077a5e6](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/077a5e6e4dce99841edd7f0b2755333733da8ba1))
- *(No Category)* Set the default for ValidationRules::allowAdditionalKeys to false ([537dab0](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/537dab078c6bbd76953b7387069e872ccf856e30))
- *(No Category)* Cleanup karabo common const ([a52062b](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a52062bed14a2472796345df2f06389a37d8a43b))
- *(No Category)* Rename completely priority to level ([39c3505](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/39c350522f4f0824c77509f68d3894006c2182c6))
- *(No Category)* Remove default specification of logger level from service files ([19e3c44](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/19e3c4455d56d5efbc4c245ca0631eee8f161fd5))
- *(No Category)* Remove redundant logger ostream ([ce49ba9](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/ce49ba96be0a01d11daf407d10f475663af856b7))
- *(No Category)* Align the Encoding Enum ([7a9e1b2](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/7a9e1b264e62f07eb1959137c445be47883ab055))
- *(No Category)* Rename default DataLoggerManager instance ([db9a430](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/db9a430fecdc889fef685fa43b32116b6e2a9aed))
- *(No Category)* Remove XYModel ([2ad2832](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2ad28320146840ccf7be504dd58a0b54e95d612c))
- *(No Category)* Remove rollingWindowStatistics remnants from bound device ([b21f726](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b21f7262b84b0061546ece3525ae672fc29638d8))
- *(No Category)* Align MDL device template for pytest asyncio ([d79ef2d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d79ef2d3ab7dfb58827ba0a4dc1cfaf8b3260486))
- *(No Category)* Remove description and user from project models ([18ff541](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/18ff541d2900efba1078de5048f970be2b14e2ca))
- *(No Category)* Refactor injection integration test to pytest ([750efd0](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/750efd0a6d88fc8829e21013d65c2bab39b49b7e))
- *(No Category)* Karabo script now uses karaboDevices3 to create and install devices/repositories ([e132f10](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/e132f104ec64cb92e524ef0324170e6659ed3d44))
- *(C++)* Migrate boost::shared_mutex to std::shared_mutex ([c7d226a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c7d226a5f54b5d068ad0b03ade03277eada8e8e4))
- *(C++)* Migrate from boost::thread to std::jthread ([b4780ce](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b4780ce4d9ec84eba1f97c6aafaa66818c7010e8))
- *(C++)* Migrate to std::jthread in whole framework ([aa80247](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/aa80247641553436cfbf29fcdd7553df375a499a))
- *(C++)* Missing spurious boost to std migrations ([1e9bd0e](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/1e9bd0e8f0cdfbd9184c2e7958958e5d7c9467bf))
- *(C++/Bound)* Only slot instance can subscribe itself, no 3rd party (async part) ([2d4315a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/2d4315a224e7be554a085fb0c60ce0c66ef022da))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove visibility from devices and servers ([a7e0431](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a7e0431c61d084a8ef201d0a537c390de6bfad02))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove PATH_ELEMENT ([d6a0fcd](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d6a0fcd18ab39f6c9378b4abc659c96003176c05))
- *(C++)* No synchronous 3rd party signal/slot connections ([44c903c](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/44c903c45c7761c4940936b3940e68fdad2e58c1))
- *(C++/Bound)* Remove FSM support in Framework ([903111f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/903111f22c11e1d20cd981a96578de57fe4a5a76))


Testing
+++++++

- *(Bound)* Sig slot connect/disconnect between processes ([a70e9d7](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/a70e9d7fe1eda7fb8071ce0f04916684db8cca23))
- *(Bound)* (Re-)connection if signal instance gets online after connection ([13613d2](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/13613d21e2e6bd9dfef7f34a385c0417cb0e7aaf))
- *(C++/Bound)* Add tests for request NoWait ([6558d9d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/6558d9d649f87f1a0a0933f23ee9ae33d8a2eda2))
- *(GUI)* Set Organization properties to QApplication instance. ([415883a](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/415883aea20b9e745d7e9f1a5f96602882114356))
- *(No Category)* Use pytest-xvfb for ci testing ([fcff233](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/fcff233a9faf244ffe7a7a8c19517ee5256df17f))


Tools & CI
++++++++++

- *(TOOLS)* Use recent containers ([3ee2cc4](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/3ee2cc4552be9783f5285b1d0f2373dbe9f173ec))
- *(CI)* Run CI on Kubernetes Cluster ([c18b402](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/c18b40267565977116d14bc3596c649016d06198))


Documentation
+++++++++++++

- Separate public docs ([b6acf1d](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/b6acf1d22d34da31d796c74a57cffaa0002dc408))
- Provide more details on Karabo 2.21 ([d1190fb](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d1190fb90446e2ac799624bf67e29f4265515283))
- Update readme file for template for MDL and Bound devices ([d699468](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/d6994683f1982e864645158b3109e96b7a3512b2))
- Add patch releases to 2.21.X releases ([209234f](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/209234f39c94c6c971ca0d5b80a84f08bfd5aa4f))
- Point to gitlab pages ([00bcbbc](https://git.xfel.eu/Karabo/Framework/-/commit/00bcbbc4a3fd5abe7064aefa050a780cb6bb25c3))
